TEHRAN - In recent weeks, it seems that the battle equations in the occupied territories have undergone massive changes between the Palestinian resistance groups and the Zionist regime. Thus, even now, the Zionists themselves believe that they have no alternative but to surrender to the Palestinian groups and should inevitably retreat. A few months have passed since the start of the Great March of Return in the Gaza Strip with support from the primary Palestinian resistance groups, Hamas and Islamic Jihad. During this period, about 160 Palestinians, including several reporters, have been martyred and tens of thousands more have been seriously injured. However, the Zionist regime has continued to crack down on each fresh round of demonstrations, which has been called a new “intifada”. The Great March of Return in the Gaza Strip is an initiative of the axis of resistance in Palestine to confront the Zionist regime. It has been bloody but successful in. drawing attention to the plight of Palestinians.The Zionist authorities, in the course of their confrontation with these massive demonstrations, found themselves also to be faced with resistance in the occupied territories. The massive demonstrations are one of the important factors in changing the battle equation in occupied lands because they illustrate the inabilities of the Zionists. Nowadays, not only experts and observers of the political arena of international affairs but also the former and current military and political officials of the Zionist regime acknowledge the inability of the Netanyahu government to confront the resistance groups successfully. In this regard recently, the minister of labor and construction in the Zionist regime has implicitly acknowledged the failure of the regime against the resistance groups. He said: “It’s expedient for Israel to achieve a long-term peace agreement with the Hamas movement.” Today, all members of the Israeli Cabinet emphasize the need to create new mechanisms in the Gaza Strip through a peace agreement between Tel Aviv and Hamas. These statements clearly show that the Zionist authorities have been disappointed with the result of their hostile actions against resistance in the occupied territories. On the other hand, the series of measures taken by the Zionist regime in the occupied territories reveals the depth of fear the regime has for Islamic resistance groups and rocket attacks by them It is anticipated that hundreds of missiles from the Gaza Strip will be diverted to the occupied territories daily in the coming conflict between the Palestinian resistance and the Zionist regime and the Israeli defense systems are not capable of destroying all the missiles due to their number. As a result, thousands of Israelis may be forced to leave their homes and flee to shelters. The Zionist also say it's possible that electricity could also be cut off due to the shutdown of gas platforms in the Mediterranean. War scenarios on the northern front, which the Zionist army provided several weeks ago at a meeting with security officials, are of particular concern. A Zionist officer at the meeting described the possible damage caused by the war on the northern front with Hezbollah, and emphasized that the war might take up to a month. He provided intelligence to Zionist government ministries for the purpose of reflecting on security issues. Moreover, regarding the inability of the Zionist regime against Islamic resistance groups in the occupied territories, the former chief of staff of the IDF Southern Command, Tzvika Fogel, admitted that Tel Aviv had surrendered somewhat to the Hamas Islamic resistance movement. He said: “We raised the white flag against Hamas.” The former Zionist military official said the regime's current authorities have brought shame to Tel Aviv. He said that Israel, which at that time has now failed to defeat Hamas in Gaza. Fogel emphasized that the only thing that matters to Netanyahu is his own power. The Zionists can no longer initiate enough military aggression against the resistance and end it, and they cannot exert the kind of military pressure and carnage that would wipe out many thousands of Palestinians without invoking the ire of the entire world against the Zionist regime. The resistance forces have shown they are the ones that seem to be determining the ultimate outcome of the conflict, not the Zionist regime, at considerable costs nonetheless. The Palestinian analyst Mahmud Mardawi has emphasized anyway that the Zionist regime would prefer not to sign any ceasefire agreement with the Palestinian resistance in the Gaza Strip. For the followers of the Zionist regime, Madawi said, Israeli leaders fear the public relations impact if they sign any cease fire agreement with Hamas. Both Benjamin Netanyahu and Avigor Leiberman, as well as other members of the Likud government, agree that a ceasefire with Hamas is undesirable. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.