TEHRAN — Iranians from all walks of life took to the streets on Friday to celebrate the 1979 takeover of the U.S. embassy known as “The Den of Espionage,” and condemn the recent riots instigated by the U.S., some other Western countries and their puppet regimes in the region. All cities of Iran rose on Friday morning to renew their allegiance to the Leader of the Islamic Revolution. The rallies were held in 900 cities, including the capital Tehran, where demonstrators gathered outside the former U.S. embassy. The rallies marking the takeover of the U.S. embassy have got special importance this year as violent foreign-backed riots in the country have claimed the lives of dozens of people, including security forces. The marchers were chanting slogans, holding banners against the U.S. and the Israeli regime, strongly condemning the hostile policies of arrogant countries against Iran. The demonstrations have been turned into a symbol of unity as Iran is grappling with Western-backed riots in Iran since mid-September. People were also holding banners in support of security forces who have been the main target of violent protestors over the past few weeks. “Police is the main pillar of security,” read banners in show of solidarity with police. Demonstrators were also chanting “Death to America” and “Death to Israel”. President Ebrahim Raisi also joined the demonstrators to condemn the recent riots and caution the United States that Iran will not turn into Washington’s milk cow again. In a passionate speech, President Raisi said, “A few hours ago, I was informed that the president of the United States said something that may have been due to his distraction, when he said that we are aiming to “free” Iran. Iran was freed 43 years ago, and it is determined not to be captured by you, and it will never be a milk cow again.” He then continued his remarks by posing a rhetorical question to the White House, asking, “Will we stop with your threats and sanctions? You seek to slow down the pace of development in Iran, and the United States knows that Iran is progressing, and that is why they seek to isolate Iran, but all of their plots against our country have failed.” Raisi went on to note that everyone must know that today, the enemy has targeted “Iran’s unity and cohesion, progress, hope, peace and authority.” Emphasizing that all officials should clarify the dimensions the arrogant countries’ plots, especially the conspiracies and seditions hatched by the U.S., the president said, “All those who have the tribune should clarify how the Americans want to sow discord among the nations in order to continue their domination in any way possible.” “If a list of crimes and injustices in the world is to be presented, America is at the top of this list,” he noted. He enumerated the U.S. involvement in more than 300 wars in the world, carrying out 62 coups against countries, dropping atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War II, starting war the deadliest wars on Afghanistan, Iraq and Vietnam as examples. Demonstrators condemn U.S., Britain, Saudi and Israeli sedition At the end of the historical November 4 march, demonstrators issued a statement, condemning the recent unrest in the country. They also highlighted that the nation is very well aware of the role of the U.S., Britain, Saudi Arabia and the Israeli regime in these seditions. “We, the participants in this march, while renewing the covenant and pledge again with the founder of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Imam Khomeini and the Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Khamenei, continue to focus on unity and convergence around the guiding axis of the Islamic jurisprudence and adherence to demand of our great leader of the Iranian nation to emphasize, explain, deepen and improve the view of the future generations of the revolution regarding this irreplaceable divine blessing,” the statement said. “We, the participants in this march, being aware of this nonsensical conspiracy, know very well the plans of the intelligence services of the United States, Britain and the Zionist regime, with the help of the reactionary aristocracy of the Saudi dynasty and the superstitious aristocracy of Britain. They are using unprecedented cyber violence and terrifying cognitive attacks,” a part of the statement said. The statement added, “We, the participants in this march, while announcing our support for the revolutionary actions of the respected parliament, the value-oriented and effortful government and the respected judicial system, insist on continuously confronting sedition and unrest, emphasizing and using the outlook, power and capacity of the young elites to untangle the affairs of the country. Considering the seriousness of the situation, we ask the authorities to separate the protesters from those who are Iran’s enemies, and (also) provide legal solutions for expressing criticism while dealing with the livelihood and welfare problems of the people.”  The demonstrators also offered their condolences to the bereaved families of the Shah-e-Cheragh terrorist attack claimed by Daesh, the people of Shiraz and the nation of Iran. They also called on the responsible institutions and the legal and judicial departments of the country to punish the perpetrators of the terrorist incident and sanction the media collaborators with CENTCOM. They also stated that the independence, authority and security of Islamic Iran is indebted to the blood of tens of thousands of precious martyrs and the efforts of the zealous children of the Iranian nation and the lives of the forces protecting the country's security and their selfless efforts. They also vowed that they will always continue the martyrs’ prosperous and bright path and appreciate and support and protect the security of the country.   All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.