An agreement on a R6-billion gas-to-liquid project between PetroSA and the National Oil Company of Iran was expected to be signed on Tuesday. A further R9-billion investment deal between Sasol and the National Petrochemical Company of Iran for the development of a plastics manufacturing plant in the Persian Gulf is under discussion as well as other joint ventures and investments expected to reach R30-billion in the next few years. Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma said PetroSA and Sasol were in the process of establishing regional offices in Iran and were working with their Iranian partners in "groundbreaking work in the petro-chemical sector". She said that over the past year, South African mining companies had been assisting with the exploitation of Iranian zinc and manganese deposits. Iran is a major supplier of oil to South Africa. In 2001, two-way trade between the two countries was valued at R9-billion but was heavily in Iran's favor due to massive oil exports, only marginally offset by about R300-million in imports from South Africa. Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said at the opening of the seventh session of the South Africa-Iran Joint Commission in Pretoria on Monday that much work needed to be done to realize the potential of bilateral and trade relationships. Dlamini-Zuma said there had been significant Iranian direct investment in the South African economy recently, including a R560-million input by an Iranian housing consortium in a Western Cape housing development and an expanded investment in a project in the Eastern Cape. But Dlamini-Zuma said the trade balance being heavily skewed in favor of Iran was a "worrying characteristic of our relationship". She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                  A further R9-billion investment deal between Sasol and the National Petrochemical Company of Iran for the development of a plastics manufacturing plant in the Persian Gulf is under discussion as well as other joint ventures and investments expected to reach R30-billion in the next few years. Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma said PetroSA and Sasol were in the process of establishing regional offices in Iran and were working with their Iranian partners in "groundbreaking work in the petro-chemical sector". She said that over the past year, South African mining companies had been assisting with the exploitation of Iranian zinc and manganese deposits. Iran is a major supplier of oil to South Africa. In 2001, two-way trade between the two countries was valued at R9-billion but was heavily in Iran's favor due to massive oil exports, only marginally offset by about R300-million in imports from South Africa. Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said at the opening of the seventh session of the South Africa-Iran Joint Commission in Pretoria on Monday that much work needed to be done to realize the potential of bilateral and trade relationships. Dlamini-Zuma said there had been significant Iranian direct investment in the South African economy recently, including a R560-million input by an Iranian housing consortium in a Western Cape housing development and an expanded investment in a project in the Eastern Cape. But Dlamini-Zuma said the trade balance being heavily skewed in favor of Iran was a "worrying characteristic of our relationship". She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                  Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma said PetroSA and Sasol were in the process of establishing regional offices in Iran and were working with their Iranian partners in "groundbreaking work in the petro-chemical sector". She said that over the past year, South African mining companies had been assisting with the exploitation of Iranian zinc and manganese deposits. Iran is a major supplier of oil to South Africa. In 2001, two-way trade between the two countries was valued at R9-billion but was heavily in Iran's favor due to massive oil exports, only marginally offset by about R300-million in imports from South Africa. Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said at the opening of the seventh session of the South Africa-Iran Joint Commission in Pretoria on Monday that much work needed to be done to realize the potential of bilateral and trade relationships. Dlamini-Zuma said there had been significant Iranian direct investment in the South African economy recently, including a R560-million input by an Iranian housing consortium in a Western Cape housing development and an expanded investment in a project in the Eastern Cape. But Dlamini-Zuma said the trade balance being heavily skewed in favor of Iran was a "worrying characteristic of our relationship". She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                  She said that over the past year, South African mining companies had been assisting with the exploitation of Iranian zinc and manganese deposits. Iran is a major supplier of oil to South Africa. In 2001, two-way trade between the two countries was valued at R9-billion but was heavily in Iran's favor due to massive oil exports, only marginally offset by about R300-million in imports from South Africa. Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said at the opening of the seventh session of the South Africa-Iran Joint Commission in Pretoria on Monday that much work needed to be done to realize the potential of bilateral and trade relationships. Dlamini-Zuma said there had been significant Iranian direct investment in the South African economy recently, including a R560-million input by an Iranian housing consortium in a Western Cape housing development and an expanded investment in a project in the Eastern Cape. But Dlamini-Zuma said the trade balance being heavily skewed in favor of Iran was a "worrying characteristic of our relationship". She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                  Iran is a major supplier of oil to South Africa. In 2001, two-way trade between the two countries was valued at R9-billion but was heavily in Iran's favor due to massive oil exports, only marginally offset by about R300-million in imports from South Africa. Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said at the opening of the seventh session of the South Africa-Iran Joint Commission in Pretoria on Monday that much work needed to be done to realize the potential of bilateral and trade relationships. Dlamini-Zuma said there had been significant Iranian direct investment in the South African economy recently, including a R560-million input by an Iranian housing consortium in a Western Cape housing development and an expanded investment in a project in the Eastern Cape. But Dlamini-Zuma said the trade balance being heavily skewed in favor of Iran was a "worrying characteristic of our relationship". She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                  In 2001, two-way trade between the two countries was valued at R9-billion but was heavily in Iran's favor due to massive oil exports, only marginally offset by about R300-million in imports from South Africa. Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said at the opening of the seventh session of the South Africa-Iran Joint Commission in Pretoria on Monday that much work needed to be done to realize the potential of bilateral and trade relationships. Dlamini-Zuma said there had been significant Iranian direct investment in the South African economy recently, including a R560-million input by an Iranian housing consortium in a Western Cape housing development and an expanded investment in a project in the Eastern Cape. But Dlamini-Zuma said the trade balance being heavily skewed in favor of Iran was a "worrying characteristic of our relationship". She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                  Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said at the opening of the seventh session of the South Africa-Iran Joint Commission in Pretoria on Monday that much work needed to be done to realize the potential of bilateral and trade relationships. Dlamini-Zuma said there had been significant Iranian direct investment in the South African economy recently, including a R560-million input by an Iranian housing consortium in a Western Cape housing development and an expanded investment in a project in the Eastern Cape. But Dlamini-Zuma said the trade balance being heavily skewed in favor of Iran was a "worrying characteristic of our relationship". She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                  Dlamini-Zuma said there had been significant Iranian direct investment in the South African economy recently, including a R560-million input by an Iranian housing consortium in a Western Cape housing development and an expanded investment in a project in the Eastern Cape. But Dlamini-Zuma said the trade balance being heavily skewed in favor of Iran was a "worrying characteristic of our relationship". She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                  But Dlamini-Zuma said the trade balance being heavily skewed in favor of Iran was a "worrying characteristic of our relationship". She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                  She said a South Africa-Iran Business Forum would be set up this week.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.