TEHRAN — A senior legislator believes that based on the reports provided by the Iranian intelligence agencies, foreign agents played a key role in the recent riots in Iran. “The reports conducted by the intelligence and security agencies on the recent riots indicates that foreign agents played a key role in planning to cause the riots,” Abbas Moqtadaei, the deputy head of the National Security and Foreign Policy Committee of the Parliament, said in an interview with IRNA published on Sunday.  Moqtadaei added, “According to these reports, the recent unrests were not caused by a spontaneous and endogenous approach of the people, but the opponents of the Islamic Republic used the death of the late Mahsa Amini as an excuse. Foreign espionage was used to cause chaos in the country by inciting people's feelings.” Referring to the briefing presented by Foreign Minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian in the parliamentary committee, the representative of the people of Isfahan underlined that as per the foreign minister’s report, even Iranian embassies and missions abroad were attacked by some NGOs and mercenaries a few hours after the riots began inside the country.  These elements were found to be in direct contact with the security services of foreign countries, he added. “Also, according to the report of the interior minister and the intelligence minister to the (parliamentary) committee, the ringleaders of the recent riots admitted after their arrest that they received money from some Western countries, America and the Zionist regime to fuel the riots.” The protests that erupted in certain Iranian cities over the September 16 death of Mahsa Amini immediately turned violent as some elements used the death as a pretext to vent their anger against the Islamic Republic system.    Amini, a 22-year-old girl from the Kurdish city of Saqez, was arrested by morality police in Tehran on September 13 to be trained on dress code. Videos showed that she fainted while in police custody. However, she died in hospital three days later. Rumors broke out that she had died because of a fracture in her head. However, a thorough forensic examination proved the opposite.   The Forensic Medicine released the impatiently awaited report about the death of Mahsa Amini on Friday in which it said she suffered no damage to her head and other vital organs. Based on the medical documents, a CT scan of her brain and lungs, examination of the corpse, pathology and necropsy, it was revealed that the Amini death was not related to a blow to head or other vital organs, it said. ‘Massive plan engineered by the enemy’ The MP went on to note that recent issues show that a massive plan was engineered to cause a rebellion and make the country insecure, but due to the deep vigilance of the Iranian people and state organizations, the enemy failed to fulfill its wishes. “The enemy is now facing the lack of public opinion's cooperation with the opponents of the Islamic Republic, because in the early days the opponents pretended that the people of Iran demanded many issues, but today the people of Iran separated their ranks from the opponents, and rioters.” The legislator stressed that even Europe was deceived by the Israeli regime and the United States to side with the rioters but all their efforts went awry. “In practice, Europe, the U.S. and the Zionist regime realized their failure in creating and fomenting riots, and this failure of theirs strengthened the structure of the Islamic Republic of Iran more than ever and showed everyone that Iran isn’t a place for a velvet coup,” Moqtadaei reminded.  Stating that religious democracy has been institutionalized in Iran, the MP opined that people use elections for changes and will definitely reject any action outside the democratic system.  Of course, there is a need for changes in the country's plans by the authorities, he added, but everyone admits that Iran is so powerful that all-out mobilization of the Westerners against the Islamic Republic cannot create a crack in the strength of the nation. “The coordination of the people, government, security, military and law enforcement institutions in the recent riots that took place at the highest level saved the country from the crisis that foreigners were trying to create for Islamic Iran,” the senior legislator pointed out.  Iran has come under unprecedented propaganda war for its handling of the riots despite the fact that officials in Tehran have been insisting that the country is dealing with vandalism and those who make deadly attacks on security forces. Persian language TV channels, including Iran International and Manoto, have been spreading lies about the Amini death and inflaming the riots. American and certain Western European officials have also used the death to intervene in Iran’s internal affairs and accused Iran of suppressing the protestors.  The Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman on Sunday said Tehran is not surprised by meddlesome remarks of the U.S. politicians.  Writing on his Instagram page, Nasser Kanaani said, “Since the beginning of the recent developments in Iran, yesterday (Saturday), U.S. President Joe Biden supported the disturbances in Iran for the umpteenth time through interventionist statements.” Kanaani said Iran is too proud to be “swayed by the interventions and exclamations of a politician tired of years of fruitless action against Iran.” The diplomat went on to note that the U.S. has grown accustomed to misusing opportunities. Also, in a telephone conversation late on Friday, Foreign Minister Amir Abdollahian told European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell that Iran is not a “land for velvet or colorful coups” and called Iran “anchorage of durable stability in the region.” Amir Abdollahian also said that Iran is “fully backed by its people and enjoys effective democracy.” “The death of the late Mahsa Amini is painful for all of us,” the Iranian foreign minister told Borrell. However, he pointed out that this issue is just regarded as a pretext for intervention by some Western authorities in Iran’s internal affairs. The minister insisted that that peaceful protests and demands are different from riots. “Peaceful demands are different from riots, murders, arson, and terrorist operations,” Amir Abdollahian remarked. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.