TEHRAN- The United States has been involved in hundreds of wars, invasions, coups and conflicts around the globe, yet it claims to be the flagbearer of the international fight for freedom, liberation and human rights. In addition to its crimes, atrocities and attempts to divide countries, Washington stands accused of seditious acts through a widespread social media campaign and its embassies around the globe have been censured for their role in destabilizing different regions of the world. The U.S. itself was founded on violence against the indigenous people of America and since then it has survived on instigating violence with its hegemonic dreams and hopes of global hegemony following the collapse of the British empire. Over the past two decades Washington has had its eyes on West Asia with the disastrous invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as its support for Takfiri terrorist groups in countries such as Syria and Libya and in particular the Islamic Republic of Iran.   It has since expanded its warmongering approach towards Eastern Europe with the aim of containing rising superpowers such as Russia. It has also pinned its hopes on China’s domestic issues such as Taiwan, Hong Kong, Tibet, Xinjiang and elsewhere with the hope of containing the rising economic and military power of Beijing. In essence, what is very clear is that wherever there is a U.S. presence, there is also insecurity and no stability in that part of the world. U.S. President Joe Biden claims the U.S. will "free" Iran. Speaking at a campaign speech in California on Thursday, he said "don't worry, we're gonna free Iran,". The reality is, as noted by Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi, Iran was freed from U.S. captivity by toppling the puppet Pahlavi regime.  "I am telling Biden that Iran was freed 43 years ago," Raisi said in reference to the 1979 Islamic Revolution. It is also important to note that the Iranian people were free in 1953 before the American CIA and British MI6 orchestrated a coup that toppled the democratically elected government of Prime Minister Mohammad Mossadeq and replaced it with a puppet regime to loot the country’s large oil and gas resources. This is something both Washington and its Western allies publicly acknowledge. The reality is that the U.S. has been trying to repeat the exact same scenario in Iran since the 1979 Islamic Revolution. It has no interest in freedom or the livelihoods of Iranian people. Experts say human rights are observed in Iran more than the United States where minority groups, including Black Americans, face systematic discrimination. The U.S. claims it wants to free the Iranian nation while at the same time it has imposed the harshest ever sanctions on Iranian people that have caused the majority of the country's population to suffer. American sanctions prevented and continue to prevent patients suffering from serious diseases, such as cancer or rare skin diseases, to gain access to vital medicines by banning money transfer from Iran. This is under the name of "U.S. freedom". American widespread support for riots in Iran over the past few weeks have also led to the brutal death of police forces. This is the freedom and human rights that America seeks to spread and preaches about.  The closer the United States approaches Iranian borders or any other border in West Asia and beyond (under the guise of freedom and human rights), the more insecurity grows in that country. And the U.S. has dozens of military bases surrounding Iranian borders but an independent Iran has proven it has the capability to prevent the Pentagon from toppling the Islamic Republic because of Tehran's military might. On the other hand, governments and kingdoms that have linked their own national security interests (knowingly or unknowingly, willingly or unwillingly) to the U.S. have been toppled because of their lack of sovereignty. In cases where they have not been toppled, the U.S. is stirring sedition and divide nations. This policy of spreading instability helps American arms manufacturers make lucrative profits from weapons deliveries, as has been witnessed in many countries, such as Cuba and other Latin American countries and more recently to Syria, Libya, Ukraine, etc.   The U.S. State Department has demanded that North Korea refrain from taking any defensive measures to protect its territory, and instead engage in dialogue. This is while the United States has hundreds of warplanes buzzing around North Korean borders in joint war games that have been extended and which Pyongyang views as a rehearsal for an imminent invasion. North Korea has test-fired ballistic missiles in response to these war games and Pyongyang, unsurprisingly, has been denounced by Washington for stirring up trouble. In other words, the U.S. is allowed to hold the largest ever war games next to North Korea with the deployment of B-1B strategic bombers but the North is not allowed to test its own missiles to protect its territorial integrity. The U.S. Navy missile-guided destroyers and other warships including U.S. warplane carriers and strike groups regularly sail in the South China Sea and expect China to remain silent, which by the way Beijing has exercised praiseworthy patience with its diplomatic approach to the U.S. provocations. A reflection of how one country is not after seeking military confrontation and how another has a warmongering approach under the pretext of spreading freedom that nobody even requested in the first place. Critics argue that the delusional idea that Washington can provide security guarantees for another country can’t be further from the truth. The fact of the matter is, as history has shown and proven, the U.S. only looks after its own interests, makes lucrative profit from its military adventurism and once these America’s interests are gone, so are the alleged security guarantees that Washington once promised to provide for certain governments and rulers and kings. According to different researches the U.S. has been involved in hundreds of wars, conflicts and coups throughout its short history. When Washington speaks about women’s rights, at the same time, one only has to look at how many women the U.S. army has killed or starved to death because of the wars it has launched or directly supported. How many women have been murdered in Yemen as a result of America’s direct support for the war on the country? At the end of the day, it was U.S. bombs that fell on the heads of civilians, which killed hundreds of thousands of Yemenis, many of them women and children. How many American bombs destroyed hospitals in Yemen under the name of spreading freedom? How many women and children has the United States murdered in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan (to name a few) when its missiles landed on civilian buildings and other public institutions? How many terrorist groups has the United States supported, backed, armed and provided logistical as well as intelligence support in Syria under the pretext of spreading its so-called freedom for the Syrian people. The truth is under Washington's so-called “war on terror”, following the September 11 attacks, global Takfiri terrorism has grown rapidly, creating further international instability.     All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.