The conference is being sponsored by the Iranian Parliament (Majlis) and will be presided over by MP Ali Akbar Mohtashamipour. Parliamentarians from Muslim countries will participate in the conference to discuss the future of the Palestinian people and the Intifada. In an interview, Palestinian National Council member Abd al-Karim al-Omar, commenting on the importance of the Tehran conference, said that holding such a seminar to organize international support for the Intifada is constructive. Also, worldwide nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) will hold a conference on "human rights of Palestinians" in Tehran next Monday, April 23 ahead of the International Conference on Palestine slated for April 24-25. Member of Parliament (MP) Mrs. Fatemeh Haqiqatjoo told a press conference that NGOs from Iran, Germany, Switzerland, Jordan, Palestine, Lebanon, Syria, Britain, Iraq, Kuwait, Egypt, Algeria, Malaysia, Sudan, Yemen and South Africa will take part in the conference and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR) has also been invited. She said that the worldwide NGOs conference aims to render support for human rights of Palestinian people and children. It will exert pressure on international organizations to condemn the Zionist regime as well as the racism and terrorism being exercised against the Palestinian nation, she pointed out. The Iranian MP said that the one-day conference will seek support from governments to stop genocide of Palestinians and defend human rights for the Palestinians.
  In an interview, Palestinian National Council member Abd al-Karim al-Omar, commenting on the importance of the Tehran conference, said that holding such a seminar to organize international support for the Intifada is constructive. Also, worldwide nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) will hold a conference on "human rights of Palestinians" in Tehran next Monday, April 23 ahead of the International Conference on Palestine slated for April 24-25. Member of Parliament (MP) Mrs. Fatemeh Haqiqatjoo told a press conference that NGOs from Iran, Germany, Switzerland, Jordan, Palestine, Lebanon, Syria, Britain, Iraq, Kuwait, Egypt, Algeria, Malaysia, Sudan, Yemen and South Africa will take part in the conference and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR) has also been invited. She said that the worldwide NGOs conference aims to render support for human rights of Palestinian people and children. It will exert pressure on international organizations to condemn the Zionist regime as well as the racism and terrorism being exercised against the Palestinian nation, she pointed out. The Iranian MP said that the one-day conference will seek support from governments to stop genocide of Palestinians and defend human rights for the Palestinians.
  Also, worldwide nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) will hold a conference on "human rights of Palestinians" in Tehran next Monday, April 23 ahead of the International Conference on Palestine slated for April 24-25. Member of Parliament (MP) Mrs. Fatemeh Haqiqatjoo told a press conference that NGOs from Iran, Germany, Switzerland, Jordan, Palestine, Lebanon, Syria, Britain, Iraq, Kuwait, Egypt, Algeria, Malaysia, Sudan, Yemen and South Africa will take part in the conference and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR) has also been invited. She said that the worldwide NGOs conference aims to render support for human rights of Palestinian people and children. It will exert pressure on international organizations to condemn the Zionist regime as well as the racism and terrorism being exercised against the Palestinian nation, she pointed out. The Iranian MP said that the one-day conference will seek support from governments to stop genocide of Palestinians and defend human rights for the Palestinians.
  Member of Parliament (MP) Mrs. Fatemeh Haqiqatjoo told a press conference that NGOs from Iran, Germany, Switzerland, Jordan, Palestine, Lebanon, Syria, Britain, Iraq, Kuwait, Egypt, Algeria, Malaysia, Sudan, Yemen and South Africa will take part in the conference and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR) has also been invited. She said that the worldwide NGOs conference aims to render support for human rights of Palestinian people and children. It will exert pressure on international organizations to condemn the Zionist regime as well as the racism and terrorism being exercised against the Palestinian nation, she pointed out. The Iranian MP said that the one-day conference will seek support from governments to stop genocide of Palestinians and defend human rights for the Palestinians.
  She said that the worldwide NGOs conference aims to render support for human rights of Palestinian people and children. It will exert pressure on international organizations to condemn the Zionist regime as well as the racism and terrorism being exercised against the Palestinian nation, she pointed out. The Iranian MP said that the one-day conference will seek support from governments to stop genocide of Palestinians and defend human rights for the Palestinians.
  The Iranian MP said that the one-day conference will seek support from governments to stop genocide of Palestinians and defend human rights for the Palestinians.
 
 
 
 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.