TEHRAN - In a letter on Tuesday, the Islamic Republic of Iran's ambassador to the UN demanded that those responsible in the assassination of Iranian Lieutenant General Qassem Soleimani should be penalized. The letter by Amir Saeid Iravani was addressed to UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, Security Council President Ishikane Kimihiro, and General Assembly President Csaba Korosi on the occasion of the anniversary of the cowardly assassination of the legendary commander. The full text of the letter is as follows: Upon instructions from my Government, I am writing to you with respect to the third anniversary of the horrific assassination of Martyr Major General Qassem Soleimani (the Commander of the Quds Force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, an official branch of the armed forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran) and his companions, which was carried out by the United States on 3 January 2020 at Baghdad International Airport. In this regard, I would like to bring your attention to the following: 1. Major General Qassem Soleimani was cowardly and deliberately assassinated while visiting Iraq at the formal request of the Iraqi Government. This crime, carried out by the United States forces on the direct order of the then-President of that Country, constituted an act of terrorism and a material breach of the obligations of the United States under international law, entailing its international responsibility. 2. Furthermore, as stated in our letter dated 3 January 2022 (S/2022/5), the Israeli regime was also involved in such a heinous crime, and its involvement was officially admitted by the former Israeli regime's military intelligence chief, who stated that "Israeli intelligence played a part" in that assassination and described it as "an achievement" and one of the two significant and important assassinations during his tenure. In addition, the United States utilized its Ramstein Airbase in Germany as well as some of its military bases in the region to carry out this terrorist operation. 3. Pursuant to our letters on 3, 7, and 29 January 2020 (S/2020/13, S/2020/16, and S/2020/81) and 3 January 2022 (S/2022/5), the Islamic Republic of Iran reiterates that all those who had aided, abetted or otherwise assisted and supported, whether directly or indirectly, by any means, including the Israeli regime and Germany, are responsible for their direct or indirect involvement in the conduct of this terrorist crime and must accordingly be brought to justice. 4. Given the grave consequences of the assassination of Major General Qassem Soleimani for regional and international peace and security, and despite the Security Council's numerous resolutions recognizing that all acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable and that all perpetrators, organizers, financiers, and sponsors of terrorist acts must be brought to justice. It is deeply concerning that the United Nations Security Council was prohibited from carrying out its pertinent duties under the United Nations Charter by the perpetrator, the United States. Inaction by the Security Council will only erode its already damaged credibility and authority. 5. It is worth mentioning that Major General Qassem Soleimani played a prominent role in assisting the peoples and governments of regional countries, including the Syrian Arab Republic and the Republic of Iraq, at their request in their fight against terrorist groups. His sacrifices were widely and repeatedly acknowledged by the peoples and authorities of the respective countries, earning him the titles of Hero of the Fight Against Terrorism and General of Peace. His assassination had served the common interests of the United States, the Israeli regime, and Daesh and other terrorist organizations in the region who hailed this crime and referred to it as "an act of divine intervention that benefited" them. 6. I would like to reiterate once more that the Iranian armed forces are steadfastly determined to vigorously continue Martyr Soleimani's path of actively aiding regional nations and governments in combating foreign-backed terrorist groups in our region until they are entirely eliminated. I should be grateful if you would have the present letter circulated as a document of the Security Council. Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. Envoy cautions against Israel’s military threats against Iran In another letter on Tuesday, Ambassador Iravani also insisted that Iran keeps the right to take action if Israel launches military attacks on Iran’s nuclear facilities. The letter addressed to the UN chief and the UNSC, Ambassador Iravani said such military threats constitute a blatant violation of the UN Charter. Here is the text of the letter: I would like to draw your attention to Israel's ongoing breaches of international law and the UN Charter against the Islamic Republic of Iran. The Israeli regime continues to threaten to use force against Iran, the most recent of which are statements made by regime authorities openly threatening to use force against Iran's peaceful nuclear programs. On 28 December 2022, Benny Gantz, outgoing Defense Minister of the Israeli regime, declared, “Israel has significantly increased its preparedness in recent years and is preparing for the possibility of an attack on Iran”. Similarly, Yair Lapid, departing Prime Minister of the Israeli regime, repeated the same hostile tone and claimed, “No Israeli Government will allow a nuclear Iran. If it is necessary to act, we will act”. Furthermore, on 27 December 2022, Aviv Kohavi, Chief of Staff of the Israeli regime, remarked, “The level of preparedness for an operation in Iran has dramatically improved.” These inflammatory and belligerent statements threatening to use force against Iran's peaceful nuclear programs, which have been under the most stringent and intrusive nuclear verification, monitoring and transparency measures ever implemented in a country in the IAEA's history, are a flagrant violation of international law and the United Nations Charter, specifically Article 2(4) of the Charter. This is not the first time the Israeli regime has threatened to use force against Iran. As emphasized in Iran's letter dated 27 July 2022 (S/2022/581), this regime has already blatantly and openly admitted its responsibility for the terrorist and destructive operations committed against Iranian officials, scientists, civilians, and its peaceful nuclear infrastructure by this illegitimate regime inside Iranian territory in recent years. Indeed, such warmongering statements demonstrate that the Israeli regime is responsible for all criminal and terrorist acts committed against Iran and must bear the consequences. While warning against the Israeli regime's military adventurism against Iran in order to pursue its malign policies in the region, the Islamic Republic of Iran reserves its legitimate right, in accordance with international law and the United Nations Charter, to respond to any threat posed by the Israeli regime and protect its people as well as national security interests at any time it deems appropriate. The United Nations Security Council must uphold its Charter responsibility in the maintenance of international peace as well as security and condemn the Israeli regime's warmongering statements and malevolent activities, which are a real threat to international peace and security. This regime must be forced to comply with international law and abandon its dangerous plans for the region. I should be grateful if you would have the present letter circulated as a document of the Security Council. Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.