Haider officially stepped down from national politics in 2000 after his party's entry into government sent shock waves through Europe and prompted European Union sanctions. Comments he had made -- and later repudiated -- praising Nazi policies had sent shock waves through Europe, Reuters reported. But he is still seen as a major behind-the-scenes political player and said in an interview with Austrian television he was ready to come back for the good of the party. "My retirement in 2000 proved to be a mistake with grave consequences," Haider said. "Now it's up to the core of the party, like (party chairman and vice-chancellor) Herbert Haupt and myself, to make sure things are again as they should be." Haider, who is due to conduct meetings and garner support from party officials this weekend, could return either as party chairman or even as vice-chancellor in the Freedom Party's coalition with the conservative People's Party. Although the People's Party refers to leadership changes of its partner as 'an internal matter', Austrian media have cited high-ranking members as saying they would refuse to deal with Haider, and his comeback could lead to new elections. The coalition, barely four-month old, has already seen the biggest strikes in 50 years over pension reform, had its finance minister accused of improper campaign contributions and battled internal divisions on a two billion euro ($2.29 billion) fighter jet purchase. Haider hinted his return was all but certain, but added that ultimately the decision on the timing of a reshuffle lay with Haupt, a party veteran plagued by ill health and sorely lacking his mentor's charisma. Ten months ago, a Haider-instigated revolt brought down the first ever coalition between the Freedom Party and the People's Party, leading to snap elections that saw the far-right lose two-thirds of its vote, with Haider blamed for the slide. The debonair, mercurial Haider worked from 1986 to 2000 to transform his Freedom Party from a fringe group into Europe's biggest far-right bloc, their voting share boosted by his telegenic, anti-immigrant, tough-on-crime rhetoric.
                  Comments he had made -- and later repudiated -- praising Nazi policies had sent shock waves through Europe, Reuters reported. But he is still seen as a major behind-the-scenes political player and said in an interview with Austrian television he was ready to come back for the good of the party. "My retirement in 2000 proved to be a mistake with grave consequences," Haider said. "Now it's up to the core of the party, like (party chairman and vice-chancellor) Herbert Haupt and myself, to make sure things are again as they should be." Haider, who is due to conduct meetings and garner support from party officials this weekend, could return either as party chairman or even as vice-chancellor in the Freedom Party's coalition with the conservative People's Party. Although the People's Party refers to leadership changes of its partner as 'an internal matter', Austrian media have cited high-ranking members as saying they would refuse to deal with Haider, and his comeback could lead to new elections. The coalition, barely four-month old, has already seen the biggest strikes in 50 years over pension reform, had its finance minister accused of improper campaign contributions and battled internal divisions on a two billion euro ($2.29 billion) fighter jet purchase. Haider hinted his return was all but certain, but added that ultimately the decision on the timing of a reshuffle lay with Haupt, a party veteran plagued by ill health and sorely lacking his mentor's charisma. Ten months ago, a Haider-instigated revolt brought down the first ever coalition between the Freedom Party and the People's Party, leading to snap elections that saw the far-right lose two-thirds of its vote, with Haider blamed for the slide. The debonair, mercurial Haider worked from 1986 to 2000 to transform his Freedom Party from a fringe group into Europe's biggest far-right bloc, their voting share boosted by his telegenic, anti-immigrant, tough-on-crime rhetoric.
                  But he is still seen as a major behind-the-scenes political player and said in an interview with Austrian television he was ready to come back for the good of the party. "My retirement in 2000 proved to be a mistake with grave consequences," Haider said. "Now it's up to the core of the party, like (party chairman and vice-chancellor) Herbert Haupt and myself, to make sure things are again as they should be." Haider, who is due to conduct meetings and garner support from party officials this weekend, could return either as party chairman or even as vice-chancellor in the Freedom Party's coalition with the conservative People's Party. Although the People's Party refers to leadership changes of its partner as 'an internal matter', Austrian media have cited high-ranking members as saying they would refuse to deal with Haider, and his comeback could lead to new elections. The coalition, barely four-month old, has already seen the biggest strikes in 50 years over pension reform, had its finance minister accused of improper campaign contributions and battled internal divisions on a two billion euro ($2.29 billion) fighter jet purchase. Haider hinted his return was all but certain, but added that ultimately the decision on the timing of a reshuffle lay with Haupt, a party veteran plagued by ill health and sorely lacking his mentor's charisma. Ten months ago, a Haider-instigated revolt brought down the first ever coalition between the Freedom Party and the People's Party, leading to snap elections that saw the far-right lose two-thirds of its vote, with Haider blamed for the slide. The debonair, mercurial Haider worked from 1986 to 2000 to transform his Freedom Party from a fringe group into Europe's biggest far-right bloc, their voting share boosted by his telegenic, anti-immigrant, tough-on-crime rhetoric.
                  Haider, who is due to conduct meetings and garner support from party officials this weekend, could return either as party chairman or even as vice-chancellor in the Freedom Party's coalition with the conservative People's Party. Although the People's Party refers to leadership changes of its partner as 'an internal matter', Austrian media have cited high-ranking members as saying they would refuse to deal with Haider, and his comeback could lead to new elections. The coalition, barely four-month old, has already seen the biggest strikes in 50 years over pension reform, had its finance minister accused of improper campaign contributions and battled internal divisions on a two billion euro ($2.29 billion) fighter jet purchase. Haider hinted his return was all but certain, but added that ultimately the decision on the timing of a reshuffle lay with Haupt, a party veteran plagued by ill health and sorely lacking his mentor's charisma. Ten months ago, a Haider-instigated revolt brought down the first ever coalition between the Freedom Party and the People's Party, leading to snap elections that saw the far-right lose two-thirds of its vote, with Haider blamed for the slide. The debonair, mercurial Haider worked from 1986 to 2000 to transform his Freedom Party from a fringe group into Europe's biggest far-right bloc, their voting share boosted by his telegenic, anti-immigrant, tough-on-crime rhetoric.
                  Although the People's Party refers to leadership changes of its partner as 'an internal matter', Austrian media have cited high-ranking members as saying they would refuse to deal with Haider, and his comeback could lead to new elections. The coalition, barely four-month old, has already seen the biggest strikes in 50 years over pension reform, had its finance minister accused of improper campaign contributions and battled internal divisions on a two billion euro ($2.29 billion) fighter jet purchase. Haider hinted his return was all but certain, but added that ultimately the decision on the timing of a reshuffle lay with Haupt, a party veteran plagued by ill health and sorely lacking his mentor's charisma. Ten months ago, a Haider-instigated revolt brought down the first ever coalition between the Freedom Party and the People's Party, leading to snap elections that saw the far-right lose two-thirds of its vote, with Haider blamed for the slide. The debonair, mercurial Haider worked from 1986 to 2000 to transform his Freedom Party from a fringe group into Europe's biggest far-right bloc, their voting share boosted by his telegenic, anti-immigrant, tough-on-crime rhetoric.
                  The coalition, barely four-month old, has already seen the biggest strikes in 50 years over pension reform, had its finance minister accused of improper campaign contributions and battled internal divisions on a two billion euro ($2.29 billion) fighter jet purchase. Haider hinted his return was all but certain, but added that ultimately the decision on the timing of a reshuffle lay with Haupt, a party veteran plagued by ill health and sorely lacking his mentor's charisma. Ten months ago, a Haider-instigated revolt brought down the first ever coalition between the Freedom Party and the People's Party, leading to snap elections that saw the far-right lose two-thirds of its vote, with Haider blamed for the slide. The debonair, mercurial Haider worked from 1986 to 2000 to transform his Freedom Party from a fringe group into Europe's biggest far-right bloc, their voting share boosted by his telegenic, anti-immigrant, tough-on-crime rhetoric.
                  Haider hinted his return was all but certain, but added that ultimately the decision on the timing of a reshuffle lay with Haupt, a party veteran plagued by ill health and sorely lacking his mentor's charisma. Ten months ago, a Haider-instigated revolt brought down the first ever coalition between the Freedom Party and the People's Party, leading to snap elections that saw the far-right lose two-thirds of its vote, with Haider blamed for the slide. The debonair, mercurial Haider worked from 1986 to 2000 to transform his Freedom Party from a fringe group into Europe's biggest far-right bloc, their voting share boosted by his telegenic, anti-immigrant, tough-on-crime rhetoric.
                  Ten months ago, a Haider-instigated revolt brought down the first ever coalition between the Freedom Party and the People's Party, leading to snap elections that saw the far-right lose two-thirds of its vote, with Haider blamed for the slide. The debonair, mercurial Haider worked from 1986 to 2000 to transform his Freedom Party from a fringe group into Europe's biggest far-right bloc, their voting share boosted by his telegenic, anti-immigrant, tough-on-crime rhetoric.
                  The debonair, mercurial Haider worked from 1986 to 2000 to transform his Freedom Party from a fringe group into Europe's biggest far-right bloc, their voting share boosted by his telegenic, anti-immigrant, tough-on-crime rhetoric.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.