TEHRAN _ Iran’s ski areas reach altitudes that overshadow those of even the highest resorts in the Alps. The National British Daily Broadsheet Newspaper ‘The Daily Telegraph’ in a recent report said that Iran is the biggest untapped ski resort in the world. For most skiers and snowboarders, the idea of an off-piste paradise normally conjures up thoughts of Alaska’s majestic peaks, Verbier’s world-famous freeride terrain or Japan’s legendary powder fields. Many, forgivably, would not consider looking to the mountains of Iran. But hoping to lift the curtain on Iran’s off-piste terrain is Snoworks, a UK-based provider of ski courses around the world. The company has announced a new trip to Iran’s top resorts for British skiers next March, run in conjunction with tour operator Mountain Heaven. Managing Director of Mountain Heaven Nick Williams visited the country in March 2016 and was impressed enough by the terrain, food, friendly people and atmospheric mountain cafés to launch holidays. The Snoworks trip combines four of Iran’s main ski resorts: Dizin, Shemshak, Darbandsar and Tochal. All the resorts have untapped off-piste areas that are accessed by lift, but most skiers and snowboarders have probably never heard of them. Mountain Heaven also offers a holiday to Dizin, Shemshak and Darbandsar which, while not recommended for beginners, is more piste based. The Alborz Mountains, in northern Iran, stretch from the border with Azerbaijan and along the western and southern coast of the Caspian Sea. These holidays visit resorts in the center of the mountain range, north of the Iranian capital of Tehran. Iran’s ski areas reach altitudes that overshadow those of even the highest resorts in the Alps. The Daily Telegraph quoted Phil Smith, Director of Snoworks as saying, “Skiing in Iran offers a true adventure, combining amazing culture and unforgettable skiing experiences.
“We’ll be flying into Tehran with a city stopover before heading high up into the Alborz Mountain Range north of Tehran. Skiing in Iran is little known outside of the country, but there’s an immense mountain range, largely untapped.” Snoworks is running its trip from March 10 to March 18, 2018, costing £2,545 per person, based on two sharing a room. The price includes transfers, bed and breakfast accommodation provided by Ski Adventure Iran in partnership with Mountain Heaven, evening meals in ski resorts, visa approval service, guiding instruction from Snoworks and entrance fees for any sightseeing in Tehran, Iran Daily wrote. Dizin
Dizin is the largest Iranian ski resorts. It is located in the Alborz mountain range, about 70km North from Tehran.
The ski season in Dizin lasts from December to May, due its high altitude. The highest ski lift reaches 3,600 m (11,800 ft), making it one of the 40 highest ski resorts in the world. Shemshak
Shemshak is a ski resort situated to the north-east of Tehran in the Alborz mountain range. Shemshak is the third largest ski area in Iran after Dizin, Darbandsar and came into operation in 1958. It includes two ski lifts, three dish teleskis and two Hammer teleskis.
The slopes lie at an altitude of 2,550 m to 3,050 m above sea level. The resort includes two main slopes each with a chair lift that apex at the top and several lifts. There are also lighting facilities for night skiing. Shemshak is a city in Rudbar-e Qasran District, Shemiranat County, Tehran Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,383, in 702 families.
The city of Shemshak was formed from the former villages of Shemshak-e Bala, Shemshak-e Pain, Darband Sar, Sefidestan, Darrud, and Jirud. Darbandsar This small private resort is located on the slopes of Mount Seechal, at Darbandsar Village 60 kilometers North West of Tehran in Elborz Mountains. It is one of the 7 major ski resorts near Cpital city Tehran and the second most challenging resort after Shemshak in the same region. It is possible to ski from Dizin to Darbandsar, but go back by car! If you like to ski continuously without losing your time in lifts queues, this resort is the best choice, because it is not crowded even during the peak of ski season, a great number of ski lovers attend this field. Darbandsar offers some good slopes for off-piste skiing and snowboarding, the region is best for extreme skiers, a good place for acclimatization and practice before trying ski mountaineering on Mt Damavand Iran. The resort is in the Rundbar-e Ghasran tourist zone which includes some majestic tourist zone such as Maygoon, Zagoon, Shemshak, Darbandsar, Fasham, Oushan. Tochal
Tochal is a mountain and ski resort located on the Alborz mountain range, adjacent to the metropolitan area of Tehran in northern Iran. It includes a 12-kilometer-long ridge. Its highest peak, also called Tochal, is at an elevation of 3,933 meters (12,904 feet). A gondola lift runs from Tehran to the Tochal ski resort and hotel, all as a part of Tochal Complex. Source: Mehrnews Agency  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.