TEHRAN - Addressing a massive and glorious crowd of people from different walks of life at the mausoleum of Imam Khomeini on Friday, Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei described Imam Khomeini, the founder of the Islamic Republic, as a “revolutionary, devout and faithful” personality.  Laying emphasis on the continuation of the path of the “revolutionary Imam of the nation” as the only way of progress and realization of the objectives of people and the Islamic establishment, the Supreme Leader elucidated important indicators of “revolutionary spirit. “By benefiting from the experience of [Iran’s] nuclear talks [with six world powers], i.e. the proof of necessity of distrusting the U.S., the country’s drive and progress must go on,” Ayatollah Khamenei said, according to the leader.ir. 
   
In his speech marking the 27th anniversary of the departure of Imam Khomeini, Ayatollah Khamenei highlighted “revolutionary, devout and faithful” description as a comprehensive portrayal for the late Imam Khomeini. “The venerable Imam was faithful to God, faithful to people, faithful to objective and faithful to the path that led him to this goal.”  Regarding the “devout” character of Imam Khomeini, the Leader said, “He was a faithful man serving Lord, he was humble and a man of prayer.”     Ayatollah Khamenei also said, “The Imam was a ‘revolutionary imam’ and this attribute is the main cause of materialist powers’ anger with him.” The Leader stressed that world powers are extremely intimidated when they hear about the Iranian nation’s 1979 Islamic Revolution and revolutionary spirit.  “The main reason for the exertion of pressure on the nation over these years under different pretexts including the nuclear issue and human rights is the revolutionary spirit of the Iranian nation and the Islamic establishment.”   Ayatollah Khamenei said Iran spiraled out of world powers’ control following the 1979 revolution and turned into an Islamic establishment which has set an inspiring precedent for nations.  “The main issue is that the revolutionary Imam saved the country from many quagmires including ‘quagmire of dependence, political corruption, moral corruption, international humiliation, scientific, economic and technological backwardness and the U.S. and Britain’s master-slave attitude’ and brought about a tremendous change in the drive of the country and the nation.”  The Leader reiterated that Imam Khomeini changed the country’s path towards big objectives, i.e. the “governance of the religion of God”.  He added, “The governance of the religion of God consists of the realization of genuine social justice, eradication of poverty and ignorance, eradication of oppression and social vices, establishment of Islamic values system, guaranteeing physical, moral and spiritual health, the scientific progress of the country, guaranteeing national dignity and identity and international might and activation of the country’s potentialities.”  Reiterating that Imam Khomeini pushed the country towards these objectives thanks to the Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Khamenei said, “Although reaching these objectives takes time and requires efforts they are realizable and the only requirement for their realization is to move on the path of the revolution and revolutionary spirit.”   Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say, “Since the demise of the venerable Imam, whenever we have acted [based on] revolutionary [ideals], we have made progress and whenever we have neglected revolutionary spirit and jihadi drive we have lagged behind and we have failed.” The Leader also noted, “We can move with a revolutionary drive on this path. In that case, progress is definite. [But] we can also move differently, that under such conditions, we will meet an appalling fate and the Iranian nation and Islam will be slapped in the face.”  Referring to the Islamic Revolution as the unique and prominent asset of the nation and the country, he said, “A heavy price has been paid for the revolution to pay off. However, alongside these costs, there have been abundant benefits.”
The Supreme Leader highlighted the strength of the Islamic Revolution after 37 years, saying, “Today, the circumstances for the Iranian nation are brighter and smoother than in the past and costs have become more avoidable.”   The Leader stated, “The revolution was created with people’s determination, resolve and faith and thanks to the same popular force it has survived and taken root and resisted military threats and sanctions, has not been paralyzed and has been racing ahead courageously and proudly. From now on, this drive must also continue.” 
“Today, the circumstances for the Iranian nation are brighter and smoother than in the past and costs have become more avoidable.”     
Noting that revolutionary spirit is not limited to the period of struggles or the period of Imam Khomeini, the Leader said, “Revolution and revolutionary spirit belong to all periods and revolution is a running river and all those who act based on revolutionary criteria, even youths who did not experience the Imam’s lifetime, are revolutionary.”  ‘Resistance economy is key to independence’ The Leader also warned that Iran would suffer if it were “absorbed in the global economy,” saying an “economy of resistance” is the key to the country’s independence.
“If we believe that the 'economy of resistance' is just paving the way for foreign investment, we are mistaken,” the Leader added, according to Press TV.
The Leader also dismissed a BBC report claiming secret contact between Imam Khomeini and U.S. presidents before the Islamic revolution.
"Britain has always been hostile to us" and the report was "fake", the Leader asserted.
The Leader also dismissed any cooperation with the U.S. against ISIL.
Trusting the U.S. would be "a big mistake," said the Supreme Leader, insisting that cooperation with America goes "against the independence" of Iran.
Iran has "many small and big enemies, but foremost among them are America," Britain and Israel, the Leader added.
The Leader touched on the history of U.S. hostility with Iran, including its support for Saddam Hussein in the war on the Islamic Republic, downing of an Iranian passenger plane, its attack on Iranian oil platforms and a CIA coup in Iran in 1953.
[highlights]
“A heavy price has been paid for the revolution to pay off. However, alongside these costs, there have been abundant benefits.” 
  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.