Ayatollah Khamenei, in a meeting of high-ranking state officials and foreign delegates, underpinned the need for safeguarding the identity of the Islamic Republic and the Islamic identity of the country, calling on them not to be influenced by enemy’s threats. “Hegemonic powers are trying to damage the example set by the Islamic Republic for the Muslim world.” "The noble Iranian nation, relying on invaluable lessons gained from Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) would firmly continue onto the path of prosperity and bliss," Ayatollah Khamenei said. “Man’s greatest need today, more than ever, is to stick firmly to the message brought to them by the Prophet of Islam (PUBH).” He recalled the crisis in which the Zionist regime is currently entangled as a result of the brave resistance of the Palestinian nation, stressing that this was a clear example of the results that resistance against the enemies of Islam could produce. "Wherever the Islamic Ummah stands steadfast in their resistance against tyranny, such blessed results will definitely be achieved," the leader said. Ayatollah Khamenei further referred to the U.S. plans for changing the Middle East map and extending the Zionist hegemony to the whole region, warning that the global arrogance has directed all its vengeance towards the Iranian nation. “This is because the U.S. knows the vigilance, solidarity, and resistance of the Iranians are big obstacles in the achievement of its illegitimate wishes," he said. The Supreme Leader stressed that the call of the late Imam Khomeini is still heard, and will be heard for ever after in this world, adding that the Iranian nation would follow the path of the late Imam. “The Iranian nation would brighten the hearts of those who love Islam around the globe by safeguarding the fruits of its revolution quite strongly," Ayatollah Khamenei said. Leader of the Islamic Revolution also in a letter on Wednesday agreed to pardoning or commuting prison terms of hundreds of those found guilty by the public, revolutionary and military courts. The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  "The noble Iranian nation, relying on invaluable lessons gained from Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) would firmly continue onto the path of prosperity and bliss," Ayatollah Khamenei said. “Man’s greatest need today, more than ever, is to stick firmly to the message brought to them by the Prophet of Islam (PUBH).” He recalled the crisis in which the Zionist regime is currently entangled as a result of the brave resistance of the Palestinian nation, stressing that this was a clear example of the results that resistance against the enemies of Islam could produce. "Wherever the Islamic Ummah stands steadfast in their resistance against tyranny, such blessed results will definitely be achieved," the leader said. Ayatollah Khamenei further referred to the U.S. plans for changing the Middle East map and extending the Zionist hegemony to the whole region, warning that the global arrogance has directed all its vengeance towards the Iranian nation. “This is because the U.S. knows the vigilance, solidarity, and resistance of the Iranians are big obstacles in the achievement of its illegitimate wishes," he said. The Supreme Leader stressed that the call of the late Imam Khomeini is still heard, and will be heard for ever after in this world, adding that the Iranian nation would follow the path of the late Imam. “The Iranian nation would brighten the hearts of those who love Islam around the globe by safeguarding the fruits of its revolution quite strongly," Ayatollah Khamenei said. Leader of the Islamic Revolution also in a letter on Wednesday agreed to pardoning or commuting prison terms of hundreds of those found guilty by the public, revolutionary and military courts. The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  He recalled the crisis in which the Zionist regime is currently entangled as a result of the brave resistance of the Palestinian nation, stressing that this was a clear example of the results that resistance against the enemies of Islam could produce. "Wherever the Islamic Ummah stands steadfast in their resistance against tyranny, such blessed results will definitely be achieved," the leader said. Ayatollah Khamenei further referred to the U.S. plans for changing the Middle East map and extending the Zionist hegemony to the whole region, warning that the global arrogance has directed all its vengeance towards the Iranian nation. “This is because the U.S. knows the vigilance, solidarity, and resistance of the Iranians are big obstacles in the achievement of its illegitimate wishes," he said. The Supreme Leader stressed that the call of the late Imam Khomeini is still heard, and will be heard for ever after in this world, adding that the Iranian nation would follow the path of the late Imam. “The Iranian nation would brighten the hearts of those who love Islam around the globe by safeguarding the fruits of its revolution quite strongly," Ayatollah Khamenei said. Leader of the Islamic Revolution also in a letter on Wednesday agreed to pardoning or commuting prison terms of hundreds of those found guilty by the public, revolutionary and military courts. The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  "Wherever the Islamic Ummah stands steadfast in their resistance against tyranny, such blessed results will definitely be achieved," the leader said. Ayatollah Khamenei further referred to the U.S. plans for changing the Middle East map and extending the Zionist hegemony to the whole region, warning that the global arrogance has directed all its vengeance towards the Iranian nation. “This is because the U.S. knows the vigilance, solidarity, and resistance of the Iranians are big obstacles in the achievement of its illegitimate wishes," he said. The Supreme Leader stressed that the call of the late Imam Khomeini is still heard, and will be heard for ever after in this world, adding that the Iranian nation would follow the path of the late Imam. “The Iranian nation would brighten the hearts of those who love Islam around the globe by safeguarding the fruits of its revolution quite strongly," Ayatollah Khamenei said. Leader of the Islamic Revolution also in a letter on Wednesday agreed to pardoning or commuting prison terms of hundreds of those found guilty by the public, revolutionary and military courts. The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  Ayatollah Khamenei further referred to the U.S. plans for changing the Middle East map and extending the Zionist hegemony to the whole region, warning that the global arrogance has directed all its vengeance towards the Iranian nation. “This is because the U.S. knows the vigilance, solidarity, and resistance of the Iranians are big obstacles in the achievement of its illegitimate wishes," he said. The Supreme Leader stressed that the call of the late Imam Khomeini is still heard, and will be heard for ever after in this world, adding that the Iranian nation would follow the path of the late Imam. “The Iranian nation would brighten the hearts of those who love Islam around the globe by safeguarding the fruits of its revolution quite strongly," Ayatollah Khamenei said. Leader of the Islamic Revolution also in a letter on Wednesday agreed to pardoning or commuting prison terms of hundreds of those found guilty by the public, revolutionary and military courts. The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  “This is because the U.S. knows the vigilance, solidarity, and resistance of the Iranians are big obstacles in the achievement of its illegitimate wishes," he said. The Supreme Leader stressed that the call of the late Imam Khomeini is still heard, and will be heard for ever after in this world, adding that the Iranian nation would follow the path of the late Imam. “The Iranian nation would brighten the hearts of those who love Islam around the globe by safeguarding the fruits of its revolution quite strongly," Ayatollah Khamenei said. Leader of the Islamic Revolution also in a letter on Wednesday agreed to pardoning or commuting prison terms of hundreds of those found guilty by the public, revolutionary and military courts. The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  The Supreme Leader stressed that the call of the late Imam Khomeini is still heard, and will be heard for ever after in this world, adding that the Iranian nation would follow the path of the late Imam. “The Iranian nation would brighten the hearts of those who love Islam around the globe by safeguarding the fruits of its revolution quite strongly," Ayatollah Khamenei said. Leader of the Islamic Revolution also in a letter on Wednesday agreed to pardoning or commuting prison terms of hundreds of those found guilty by the public, revolutionary and military courts. The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  “The Iranian nation would brighten the hearts of those who love Islam around the globe by safeguarding the fruits of its revolution quite strongly," Ayatollah Khamenei said. Leader of the Islamic Revolution also in a letter on Wednesday agreed to pardoning or commuting prison terms of hundreds of those found guilty by the public, revolutionary and military courts. The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  Leader of the Islamic Revolution also in a letter on Wednesday agreed to pardoning or commuting prison terms of hundreds of those found guilty by the public, revolutionary and military courts. The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  The clemency came on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Mab'ath, marking divine assignment of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to prophethood. Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                  Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Seyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi had already asked the Supreme Leader to agree to pardon or commute sentences of the guilty.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.