The German leader, talking to reporters here following a two-day visit to New York, said: "the only way to avoid a response by the Europeans is to answer the injunction" by the World Trade Organization (WTO) that the US tariffs are illegal. The tariffs were imposed by U.S. President George W. Bush in March 2002 in a bid to help the U.S. industry. Following the WTO ruling, the EU is authorized to impose retaliatory tariffs on a range of American exports totaling 2.2 billion dollars (1.8 billion euros) if Washington refuses to adhere to the WTO judgment. The WTO reviewed the case following complaints from the EU and seven other countries including China, Brazil and South Korea. The White House introduced the tariffs on foreign steel imports for three years to protect American producers, who are trying to restructure amid stiff global competition. The EU has said its retaliatory measures could be applied by mid-December if the U.S. does not overturn its tariffs. Bush has said he is examining the WTO ruling. Schroeder also told reporters he had discussed other "protectionist aims" while in the United States but declined to provide details. The U.S. had also imposed restrictions on imports of Chinese textiles.
                  The tariffs were imposed by U.S. President George W. Bush in March 2002 in a bid to help the U.S. industry. Following the WTO ruling, the EU is authorized to impose retaliatory tariffs on a range of American exports totaling 2.2 billion dollars (1.8 billion euros) if Washington refuses to adhere to the WTO judgment. The WTO reviewed the case following complaints from the EU and seven other countries including China, Brazil and South Korea. The White House introduced the tariffs on foreign steel imports for three years to protect American producers, who are trying to restructure amid stiff global competition. The EU has said its retaliatory measures could be applied by mid-December if the U.S. does not overturn its tariffs. Bush has said he is examining the WTO ruling. Schroeder also told reporters he had discussed other "protectionist aims" while in the United States but declined to provide details. The U.S. had also imposed restrictions on imports of Chinese textiles.
                  Following the WTO ruling, the EU is authorized to impose retaliatory tariffs on a range of American exports totaling 2.2 billion dollars (1.8 billion euros) if Washington refuses to adhere to the WTO judgment. The WTO reviewed the case following complaints from the EU and seven other countries including China, Brazil and South Korea. The White House introduced the tariffs on foreign steel imports for three years to protect American producers, who are trying to restructure amid stiff global competition. The EU has said its retaliatory measures could be applied by mid-December if the U.S. does not overturn its tariffs. Bush has said he is examining the WTO ruling. Schroeder also told reporters he had discussed other "protectionist aims" while in the United States but declined to provide details. The U.S. had also imposed restrictions on imports of Chinese textiles.
                  The WTO reviewed the case following complaints from the EU and seven other countries including China, Brazil and South Korea. The White House introduced the tariffs on foreign steel imports for three years to protect American producers, who are trying to restructure amid stiff global competition. The EU has said its retaliatory measures could be applied by mid-December if the U.S. does not overturn its tariffs. Bush has said he is examining the WTO ruling. Schroeder also told reporters he had discussed other "protectionist aims" while in the United States but declined to provide details. The U.S. had also imposed restrictions on imports of Chinese textiles.
                  The White House introduced the tariffs on foreign steel imports for three years to protect American producers, who are trying to restructure amid stiff global competition. The EU has said its retaliatory measures could be applied by mid-December if the U.S. does not overturn its tariffs. Bush has said he is examining the WTO ruling. Schroeder also told reporters he had discussed other "protectionist aims" while in the United States but declined to provide details. The U.S. had also imposed restrictions on imports of Chinese textiles.
                  The EU has said its retaliatory measures could be applied by mid-December if the U.S. does not overturn its tariffs. Bush has said he is examining the WTO ruling. Schroeder also told reporters he had discussed other "protectionist aims" while in the United States but declined to provide details. The U.S. had also imposed restrictions on imports of Chinese textiles.
                  Bush has said he is examining the WTO ruling. Schroeder also told reporters he had discussed other "protectionist aims" while in the United States but declined to provide details. The U.S. had also imposed restrictions on imports of Chinese textiles.
                  Schroeder also told reporters he had discussed other "protectionist aims" while in the United States but declined to provide details. The U.S. had also imposed restrictions on imports of Chinese textiles.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.