He also referred to the injustices and oppression being carried out by world superpowers, saying the United States, as one of the known oppressors of the world, will eventually collapse. "An oppressor of humanity was the former Soviet Union which collapsed. America, as another oppressor, will fall down as well," IRNA quoted the Leader as saying. He said morality is the common message of all divine religions as well as a universal need in today's world. "Today, humanity is plagued by negligence in achieving this shining goal and this is the biggest damage," the Leader said. The world's people are starting to embrace back morals, despite huge efforts to distance them from religion, Ayatollah Khamenei said, adding it was the responsibility of spiritual leaders of divine religions to enlighten people and awaken them to their negligence. Referring to today's proponents of world peace, the Leader said that peace was not enough, saying "humanity, besides peace, needs justice as well." The Georgian archbishop, for his part, highlighted the responsibility of spiritual leaders of the world's divine religions to promote religious and moral values. He echoed Ayatollah Khamenei's statements, saying it is impossible to establish peace without justice.
                  "An oppressor of humanity was the former Soviet Union which collapsed. America, as another oppressor, will fall down as well," IRNA quoted the Leader as saying. He said morality is the common message of all divine religions as well as a universal need in today's world. "Today, humanity is plagued by negligence in achieving this shining goal and this is the biggest damage," the Leader said. The world's people are starting to embrace back morals, despite huge efforts to distance them from religion, Ayatollah Khamenei said, adding it was the responsibility of spiritual leaders of divine religions to enlighten people and awaken them to their negligence. Referring to today's proponents of world peace, the Leader said that peace was not enough, saying "humanity, besides peace, needs justice as well." The Georgian archbishop, for his part, highlighted the responsibility of spiritual leaders of the world's divine religions to promote religious and moral values. He echoed Ayatollah Khamenei's statements, saying it is impossible to establish peace without justice.
                  He said morality is the common message of all divine religions as well as a universal need in today's world. "Today, humanity is plagued by negligence in achieving this shining goal and this is the biggest damage," the Leader said. The world's people are starting to embrace back morals, despite huge efforts to distance them from religion, Ayatollah Khamenei said, adding it was the responsibility of spiritual leaders of divine religions to enlighten people and awaken them to their negligence. Referring to today's proponents of world peace, the Leader said that peace was not enough, saying "humanity, besides peace, needs justice as well." The Georgian archbishop, for his part, highlighted the responsibility of spiritual leaders of the world's divine religions to promote religious and moral values. He echoed Ayatollah Khamenei's statements, saying it is impossible to establish peace without justice.
                  "Today, humanity is plagued by negligence in achieving this shining goal and this is the biggest damage," the Leader said. The world's people are starting to embrace back morals, despite huge efforts to distance them from religion, Ayatollah Khamenei said, adding it was the responsibility of spiritual leaders of divine religions to enlighten people and awaken them to their negligence. Referring to today's proponents of world peace, the Leader said that peace was not enough, saying "humanity, besides peace, needs justice as well." The Georgian archbishop, for his part, highlighted the responsibility of spiritual leaders of the world's divine religions to promote religious and moral values. He echoed Ayatollah Khamenei's statements, saying it is impossible to establish peace without justice.
                  The world's people are starting to embrace back morals, despite huge efforts to distance them from religion, Ayatollah Khamenei said, adding it was the responsibility of spiritual leaders of divine religions to enlighten people and awaken them to their negligence. Referring to today's proponents of world peace, the Leader said that peace was not enough, saying "humanity, besides peace, needs justice as well." The Georgian archbishop, for his part, highlighted the responsibility of spiritual leaders of the world's divine religions to promote religious and moral values. He echoed Ayatollah Khamenei's statements, saying it is impossible to establish peace without justice.
                  Referring to today's proponents of world peace, the Leader said that peace was not enough, saying "humanity, besides peace, needs justice as well." The Georgian archbishop, for his part, highlighted the responsibility of spiritual leaders of the world's divine religions to promote religious and moral values. He echoed Ayatollah Khamenei's statements, saying it is impossible to establish peace without justice.
                  The Georgian archbishop, for his part, highlighted the responsibility of spiritual leaders of the world's divine religions to promote religious and moral values. He echoed Ayatollah Khamenei's statements, saying it is impossible to establish peace without justice.
                  He echoed Ayatollah Khamenei's statements, saying it is impossible to establish peace without justice.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.