But it is really very unfortunate that some, in the name of this great religion, commit crimes against people just because they do not agree with them on certain issues, including the interpretation of certain Islamic principles. The worst are the Afghan Taleban who are committing the worst crimes against innocent civilians. Since they seized Kabul, the entire region has become destabilized. The Taleban have set up camps for training terrorists, afterwards sending some of them to other countries for terrorist activities where innocent civilians become a target of their merciless attack. A Pakistani belonging to Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, Dilawar Ali received training in a Taleban camp for one year and returned to Pakistan. The same terrorist martyred a number of people who belonged to the Shia sect of Islam. An Iranian diplomat, Dr. Mohammad Ali Rahimi, who was working to promote Islamic culture in that country was one of the victims of the terrorist. The least the Pakistani government can do is to try and punish the terrorists and try to distance themselves from the Taleban. The Pakistani government should not ignore their national interests. Iran is a neighbor of Pakistan, and their potential bright future of warm bilateral relations should not be sacrificed for these terrorists. Moreover, these sort of terrorist activities are not in the interest of Pakistan itself. All efforts must be made to wipe out terrorism from Pakistan and Islamabad must have friendly relations with all its neighbors.
                  The worst are the Afghan Taleban who are committing the worst crimes against innocent civilians. Since they seized Kabul, the entire region has become destabilized. The Taleban have set up camps for training terrorists, afterwards sending some of them to other countries for terrorist activities where innocent civilians become a target of their merciless attack. A Pakistani belonging to Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, Dilawar Ali received training in a Taleban camp for one year and returned to Pakistan. The same terrorist martyred a number of people who belonged to the Shia sect of Islam. An Iranian diplomat, Dr. Mohammad Ali Rahimi, who was working to promote Islamic culture in that country was one of the victims of the terrorist. The least the Pakistani government can do is to try and punish the terrorists and try to distance themselves from the Taleban. The Pakistani government should not ignore their national interests. Iran is a neighbor of Pakistan, and their potential bright future of warm bilateral relations should not be sacrificed for these terrorists. Moreover, these sort of terrorist activities are not in the interest of Pakistan itself. All efforts must be made to wipe out terrorism from Pakistan and Islamabad must have friendly relations with all its neighbors.
                  The Taleban have set up camps for training terrorists, afterwards sending some of them to other countries for terrorist activities where innocent civilians become a target of their merciless attack. A Pakistani belonging to Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, Dilawar Ali received training in a Taleban camp for one year and returned to Pakistan. The same terrorist martyred a number of people who belonged to the Shia sect of Islam. An Iranian diplomat, Dr. Mohammad Ali Rahimi, who was working to promote Islamic culture in that country was one of the victims of the terrorist. The least the Pakistani government can do is to try and punish the terrorists and try to distance themselves from the Taleban. The Pakistani government should not ignore their national interests. Iran is a neighbor of Pakistan, and their potential bright future of warm bilateral relations should not be sacrificed for these terrorists. Moreover, these sort of terrorist activities are not in the interest of Pakistan itself. All efforts must be made to wipe out terrorism from Pakistan and Islamabad must have friendly relations with all its neighbors.
                  A Pakistani belonging to Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, Dilawar Ali received training in a Taleban camp for one year and returned to Pakistan. The same terrorist martyred a number of people who belonged to the Shia sect of Islam. An Iranian diplomat, Dr. Mohammad Ali Rahimi, who was working to promote Islamic culture in that country was one of the victims of the terrorist. The least the Pakistani government can do is to try and punish the terrorists and try to distance themselves from the Taleban. The Pakistani government should not ignore their national interests. Iran is a neighbor of Pakistan, and their potential bright future of warm bilateral relations should not be sacrificed for these terrorists. Moreover, these sort of terrorist activities are not in the interest of Pakistan itself. All efforts must be made to wipe out terrorism from Pakistan and Islamabad must have friendly relations with all its neighbors.
                  The same terrorist martyred a number of people who belonged to the Shia sect of Islam. An Iranian diplomat, Dr. Mohammad Ali Rahimi, who was working to promote Islamic culture in that country was one of the victims of the terrorist. The least the Pakistani government can do is to try and punish the terrorists and try to distance themselves from the Taleban. The Pakistani government should not ignore their national interests. Iran is a neighbor of Pakistan, and their potential bright future of warm bilateral relations should not be sacrificed for these terrorists. Moreover, these sort of terrorist activities are not in the interest of Pakistan itself. All efforts must be made to wipe out terrorism from Pakistan and Islamabad must have friendly relations with all its neighbors.
                  The least the Pakistani government can do is to try and punish the terrorists and try to distance themselves from the Taleban. The Pakistani government should not ignore their national interests. Iran is a neighbor of Pakistan, and their potential bright future of warm bilateral relations should not be sacrificed for these terrorists. Moreover, these sort of terrorist activities are not in the interest of Pakistan itself. All efforts must be made to wipe out terrorism from Pakistan and Islamabad must have friendly relations with all its neighbors.
                  The Pakistani government should not ignore their national interests. Iran is a neighbor of Pakistan, and their potential bright future of warm bilateral relations should not be sacrificed for these terrorists. Moreover, these sort of terrorist activities are not in the interest of Pakistan itself. All efforts must be made to wipe out terrorism from Pakistan and Islamabad must have friendly relations with all its neighbors.
                  Moreover, these sort of terrorist activities are not in the interest of Pakistan itself. All efforts must be made to wipe out terrorism from Pakistan and Islamabad must have friendly relations with all its neighbors.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.