“Chicago Tribune” quoted the prince as saying that the Middle East region should be free from Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) through a comprehensive plan which included Iran and the Zionist regime of Israel. "Even a single attack against Iran's nuclear facilities will have dark consequences for Saudi Arabia," al-Faisal was further quoted. Addressing a gathering at Chicago, he said "If an attack be launched against Iran's nuclear facilities, then its radiations can be spread to our country by wind," wrote the daily. It further quoted the prince as saying that a general agreement on nuclear disarmament which included Iran and the Zionists regime of Israel was the best solution to remove the nuclear threats from the Middle East. "Our region must be free from WMD including nuclear weapons and we feel that all kinds of WMD should be boycotted whether they be in Israel or in Iran," the paper quoted al-Faisal. Warning against the "catastrophic consequences" of a war in the region, the envoy added, "Iran will not remain silent in case of being attacked. They will strike too." The prince hoped that Tehran would eventually accept Moscow's plan for carrying out its research activities on civilian nuclear technology development in the Russian soil. Touching upon the issue of the surge of oil price on international markets, al-Faisal said this would add to the terrorist threats worldwide as an increase of oil international price would make living conditions tougher in poor countries. The prince suggested that U.S. should find new ways for adding to the capacity of its refineries by making investments for manufacturing new refineries abroad.
                  "Even a single attack against Iran's nuclear facilities will have dark consequences for Saudi Arabia," al-Faisal was further quoted. Addressing a gathering at Chicago, he said "If an attack be launched against Iran's nuclear facilities, then its radiations can be spread to our country by wind," wrote the daily. It further quoted the prince as saying that a general agreement on nuclear disarmament which included Iran and the Zionists regime of Israel was the best solution to remove the nuclear threats from the Middle East. "Our region must be free from WMD including nuclear weapons and we feel that all kinds of WMD should be boycotted whether they be in Israel or in Iran," the paper quoted al-Faisal. Warning against the "catastrophic consequences" of a war in the region, the envoy added, "Iran will not remain silent in case of being attacked. They will strike too." The prince hoped that Tehran would eventually accept Moscow's plan for carrying out its research activities on civilian nuclear technology development in the Russian soil. Touching upon the issue of the surge of oil price on international markets, al-Faisal said this would add to the terrorist threats worldwide as an increase of oil international price would make living conditions tougher in poor countries. The prince suggested that U.S. should find new ways for adding to the capacity of its refineries by making investments for manufacturing new refineries abroad.
                  Addressing a gathering at Chicago, he said "If an attack be launched against Iran's nuclear facilities, then its radiations can be spread to our country by wind," wrote the daily. It further quoted the prince as saying that a general agreement on nuclear disarmament which included Iran and the Zionists regime of Israel was the best solution to remove the nuclear threats from the Middle East. "Our region must be free from WMD including nuclear weapons and we feel that all kinds of WMD should be boycotted whether they be in Israel or in Iran," the paper quoted al-Faisal. Warning against the "catastrophic consequences" of a war in the region, the envoy added, "Iran will not remain silent in case of being attacked. They will strike too." The prince hoped that Tehran would eventually accept Moscow's plan for carrying out its research activities on civilian nuclear technology development in the Russian soil. Touching upon the issue of the surge of oil price on international markets, al-Faisal said this would add to the terrorist threats worldwide as an increase of oil international price would make living conditions tougher in poor countries. The prince suggested that U.S. should find new ways for adding to the capacity of its refineries by making investments for manufacturing new refineries abroad.
                  It further quoted the prince as saying that a general agreement on nuclear disarmament which included Iran and the Zionists regime of Israel was the best solution to remove the nuclear threats from the Middle East. "Our region must be free from WMD including nuclear weapons and we feel that all kinds of WMD should be boycotted whether they be in Israel or in Iran," the paper quoted al-Faisal. Warning against the "catastrophic consequences" of a war in the region, the envoy added, "Iran will not remain silent in case of being attacked. They will strike too." The prince hoped that Tehran would eventually accept Moscow's plan for carrying out its research activities on civilian nuclear technology development in the Russian soil. Touching upon the issue of the surge of oil price on international markets, al-Faisal said this would add to the terrorist threats worldwide as an increase of oil international price would make living conditions tougher in poor countries. The prince suggested that U.S. should find new ways for adding to the capacity of its refineries by making investments for manufacturing new refineries abroad.
                  "Our region must be free from WMD including nuclear weapons and we feel that all kinds of WMD should be boycotted whether they be in Israel or in Iran," the paper quoted al-Faisal. Warning against the "catastrophic consequences" of a war in the region, the envoy added, "Iran will not remain silent in case of being attacked. They will strike too." The prince hoped that Tehran would eventually accept Moscow's plan for carrying out its research activities on civilian nuclear technology development in the Russian soil. Touching upon the issue of the surge of oil price on international markets, al-Faisal said this would add to the terrorist threats worldwide as an increase of oil international price would make living conditions tougher in poor countries. The prince suggested that U.S. should find new ways for adding to the capacity of its refineries by making investments for manufacturing new refineries abroad.
                  The prince hoped that Tehran would eventually accept Moscow's plan for carrying out its research activities on civilian nuclear technology development in the Russian soil. Touching upon the issue of the surge of oil price on international markets, al-Faisal said this would add to the terrorist threats worldwide as an increase of oil international price would make living conditions tougher in poor countries. The prince suggested that U.S. should find new ways for adding to the capacity of its refineries by making investments for manufacturing new refineries abroad.
                  Touching upon the issue of the surge of oil price on international markets, al-Faisal said this would add to the terrorist threats worldwide as an increase of oil international price would make living conditions tougher in poor countries. The prince suggested that U.S. should find new ways for adding to the capacity of its refineries by making investments for manufacturing new refineries abroad.
                  The prince suggested that U.S. should find new ways for adding to the capacity of its refineries by making investments for manufacturing new refineries abroad.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.