An official at Tarbiat Modarres University of Tehran Arghavani said the Iranian academics had held talks with chancellors or vice- chancellors of the universities on expansion of mutual cultural cooperation, IRNA reported. Arghavani said such visits would serve as a step towards expansion of cultural and scientific cooperation between Iran and Turkey. "Definitely, such trips would consolidate bases for close ties between Iranian and Turkish scientists and scholars," said Arghavani. A group of Iranian academics from Tarbiat Modarres University too are in Turkey since last week on a 10-day tour to inspect different Turkish universities in the coming days, said Iran's cultural attache in Ankara Abolhassan Khalaj-Monfared here on Friday. Khalaj-Monfared said visits by the 33-member delegation to Turkish higher education centers falls within framework of an agreement for cooperation between Iranian and Turkish universities. Iranian academics had held talks with chancellors or vice-chancellors of the universities on expansion of mutual cultural cooperation. A 20-member delegation of Turkish students and professors too had visited Iranian scientific and academic centers in a number of cities, including Tabriz, Tehran, Mashhad and Isfahan, in two weeks in July in line with the objective for expansion of two-way cultural and scientific cooperation.
                  Arghavani said such visits would serve as a step towards expansion of cultural and scientific cooperation between Iran and Turkey. "Definitely, such trips would consolidate bases for close ties between Iranian and Turkish scientists and scholars," said Arghavani. A group of Iranian academics from Tarbiat Modarres University too are in Turkey since last week on a 10-day tour to inspect different Turkish universities in the coming days, said Iran's cultural attache in Ankara Abolhassan Khalaj-Monfared here on Friday. Khalaj-Monfared said visits by the 33-member delegation to Turkish higher education centers falls within framework of an agreement for cooperation between Iranian and Turkish universities. Iranian academics had held talks with chancellors or vice-chancellors of the universities on expansion of mutual cultural cooperation. A 20-member delegation of Turkish students and professors too had visited Iranian scientific and academic centers in a number of cities, including Tabriz, Tehran, Mashhad and Isfahan, in two weeks in July in line with the objective for expansion of two-way cultural and scientific cooperation.
                  "Definitely, such trips would consolidate bases for close ties between Iranian and Turkish scientists and scholars," said Arghavani. A group of Iranian academics from Tarbiat Modarres University too are in Turkey since last week on a 10-day tour to inspect different Turkish universities in the coming days, said Iran's cultural attache in Ankara Abolhassan Khalaj-Monfared here on Friday. Khalaj-Monfared said visits by the 33-member delegation to Turkish higher education centers falls within framework of an agreement for cooperation between Iranian and Turkish universities. Iranian academics had held talks with chancellors or vice-chancellors of the universities on expansion of mutual cultural cooperation. A 20-member delegation of Turkish students and professors too had visited Iranian scientific and academic centers in a number of cities, including Tabriz, Tehran, Mashhad and Isfahan, in two weeks in July in line with the objective for expansion of two-way cultural and scientific cooperation.
                  A group of Iranian academics from Tarbiat Modarres University too are in Turkey since last week on a 10-day tour to inspect different Turkish universities in the coming days, said Iran's cultural attache in Ankara Abolhassan Khalaj-Monfared here on Friday. Khalaj-Monfared said visits by the 33-member delegation to Turkish higher education centers falls within framework of an agreement for cooperation between Iranian and Turkish universities. Iranian academics had held talks with chancellors or vice-chancellors of the universities on expansion of mutual cultural cooperation. A 20-member delegation of Turkish students and professors too had visited Iranian scientific and academic centers in a number of cities, including Tabriz, Tehran, Mashhad and Isfahan, in two weeks in July in line with the objective for expansion of two-way cultural and scientific cooperation.
                  Khalaj-Monfared said visits by the 33-member delegation to Turkish higher education centers falls within framework of an agreement for cooperation between Iranian and Turkish universities. Iranian academics had held talks with chancellors or vice-chancellors of the universities on expansion of mutual cultural cooperation. A 20-member delegation of Turkish students and professors too had visited Iranian scientific and academic centers in a number of cities, including Tabriz, Tehran, Mashhad and Isfahan, in two weeks in July in line with the objective for expansion of two-way cultural and scientific cooperation.
                  Iranian academics had held talks with chancellors or vice-chancellors of the universities on expansion of mutual cultural cooperation. A 20-member delegation of Turkish students and professors too had visited Iranian scientific and academic centers in a number of cities, including Tabriz, Tehran, Mashhad and Isfahan, in two weeks in July in line with the objective for expansion of two-way cultural and scientific cooperation.
                  A 20-member delegation of Turkish students and professors too had visited Iranian scientific and academic centers in a number of cities, including Tabriz, Tehran, Mashhad and Isfahan, in two weeks in July in line with the objective for expansion of two-way cultural and scientific cooperation.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.