Commenting on the discussions held at the IAEA Board of Governors meeting, Salehi told the Mehr News Agency that basically there is no technical or legal justification to refer the case to the United Nations Security Council and added that most of the IAEA Board members support Iran’s position and are trying to resolve the issue. He said Iran has answered all the IAEA questions and cleared up all ambiguities, adding that the IAEA inspectors have announced that Iran has cooperated fully with the UN nuclear watchdog and that there is no evidence that would warrant referring the Iranian nuclear dossier to the UN Security Council. He went on to say that even though the European draft resolution has not yet been formally presented to the IAEA Board, the EU is trying to convince the U.S. to approve it, adding that the Iranian nuclear program has been described as peaceful in the final text of the EU draft resolution. Noting that the IAEA resolution on Iran’s nuclear program will be based on a report by IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei, Salehi said the resolution will touch on Iran’s past nuclear activities and its failures, but the resolution makes a clear distinction between Iran’s previous nuclear activities and its future activities. He stated that the resolution will express appreciation for Iran’s close cooperation with the IAEA, its readiness to sign the additional protocol to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), and its decision to voluntarily suspend uranium enrichment activities, all of which will create a promising and hopeful climate of cooperation between Iran and the IAEA in the future. The EU resolution, which is going to be presented formally to the IAEA Board on Monday, also welcomes the new attitude of Iranian authorities. He also said that the EU has drawn two red lines: first it will not back off from its position that Iran’s nuclear dossier should not be referred to the UN Security Council and should be settled within the UN nuclear agency and that Iran is keeping its commitments, but secondly it believes Iran has had some failures. MS/HG End MNA
                  He said Iran has answered all the IAEA questions and cleared up all ambiguities, adding that the IAEA inspectors have announced that Iran has cooperated fully with the UN nuclear watchdog and that there is no evidence that would warrant referring the Iranian nuclear dossier to the UN Security Council. He went on to say that even though the European draft resolution has not yet been formally presented to the IAEA Board, the EU is trying to convince the U.S. to approve it, adding that the Iranian nuclear program has been described as peaceful in the final text of the EU draft resolution. Noting that the IAEA resolution on Iran’s nuclear program will be based on a report by IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei, Salehi said the resolution will touch on Iran’s past nuclear activities and its failures, but the resolution makes a clear distinction between Iran’s previous nuclear activities and its future activities. He stated that the resolution will express appreciation for Iran’s close cooperation with the IAEA, its readiness to sign the additional protocol to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), and its decision to voluntarily suspend uranium enrichment activities, all of which will create a promising and hopeful climate of cooperation between Iran and the IAEA in the future. The EU resolution, which is going to be presented formally to the IAEA Board on Monday, also welcomes the new attitude of Iranian authorities. He also said that the EU has drawn two red lines: first it will not back off from its position that Iran’s nuclear dossier should not be referred to the UN Security Council and should be settled within the UN nuclear agency and that Iran is keeping its commitments, but secondly it believes Iran has had some failures. MS/HG End MNA
                  He went on to say that even though the European draft resolution has not yet been formally presented to the IAEA Board, the EU is trying to convince the U.S. to approve it, adding that the Iranian nuclear program has been described as peaceful in the final text of the EU draft resolution. Noting that the IAEA resolution on Iran’s nuclear program will be based on a report by IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei, Salehi said the resolution will touch on Iran’s past nuclear activities and its failures, but the resolution makes a clear distinction between Iran’s previous nuclear activities and its future activities. He stated that the resolution will express appreciation for Iran’s close cooperation with the IAEA, its readiness to sign the additional protocol to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), and its decision to voluntarily suspend uranium enrichment activities, all of which will create a promising and hopeful climate of cooperation between Iran and the IAEA in the future. The EU resolution, which is going to be presented formally to the IAEA Board on Monday, also welcomes the new attitude of Iranian authorities. He also said that the EU has drawn two red lines: first it will not back off from its position that Iran’s nuclear dossier should not be referred to the UN Security Council and should be settled within the UN nuclear agency and that Iran is keeping its commitments, but secondly it believes Iran has had some failures. MS/HG End MNA
                  Noting that the IAEA resolution on Iran’s nuclear program will be based on a report by IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei, Salehi said the resolution will touch on Iran’s past nuclear activities and its failures, but the resolution makes a clear distinction between Iran’s previous nuclear activities and its future activities. He stated that the resolution will express appreciation for Iran’s close cooperation with the IAEA, its readiness to sign the additional protocol to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), and its decision to voluntarily suspend uranium enrichment activities, all of which will create a promising and hopeful climate of cooperation between Iran and the IAEA in the future. The EU resolution, which is going to be presented formally to the IAEA Board on Monday, also welcomes the new attitude of Iranian authorities. He also said that the EU has drawn two red lines: first it will not back off from its position that Iran’s nuclear dossier should not be referred to the UN Security Council and should be settled within the UN nuclear agency and that Iran is keeping its commitments, but secondly it believes Iran has had some failures. MS/HG End MNA
                  He stated that the resolution will express appreciation for Iran’s close cooperation with the IAEA, its readiness to sign the additional protocol to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), and its decision to voluntarily suspend uranium enrichment activities, all of which will create a promising and hopeful climate of cooperation between Iran and the IAEA in the future. The EU resolution, which is going to be presented formally to the IAEA Board on Monday, also welcomes the new attitude of Iranian authorities. He also said that the EU has drawn two red lines: first it will not back off from its position that Iran’s nuclear dossier should not be referred to the UN Security Council and should be settled within the UN nuclear agency and that Iran is keeping its commitments, but secondly it believes Iran has had some failures. MS/HG End MNA
                  The EU resolution, which is going to be presented formally to the IAEA Board on Monday, also welcomes the new attitude of Iranian authorities. He also said that the EU has drawn two red lines: first it will not back off from its position that Iran’s nuclear dossier should not be referred to the UN Security Council and should be settled within the UN nuclear agency and that Iran is keeping its commitments, but secondly it believes Iran has had some failures. MS/HG End MNA
                  He also said that the EU has drawn two red lines: first it will not back off from its position that Iran’s nuclear dossier should not be referred to the UN Security Council and should be settled within the UN nuclear agency and that Iran is keeping its commitments, but secondly it believes Iran has had some failures. MS/HG End MNA
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.