During the celebration, held at the presence of a number of Iranian MPs and officials, thousands of Zoroastrians performed religious rituals. The Zoroastrians believe fire was created on such a day during the reign of King Housahng, from the mythical Pishdadian dynasty of Iranian kings that ruled over the vast ancient Persian empire. "Fire" is considered as the symbol of purity and knowledge in Zoroastrian faith. The Iranian Zoroastrians attended their Varjavand fire temple on the occasion, along with their "Moubads" (religious authorities) and while reciting their "Gat'has" (religious hymns), re-lit the temple's fire and prayed for the sovereignty of Iran inside the country and at all global scenes, while performing their other religious rituals. Ancient Iranians divided the year into two seasons, namely the "great summer season" and the "great winter season." the great summer season began on March 23rd and ended on October 22nd, while from then to the 20th of March was named as the great winter season. Thus, the ancient Iranians celebrated their Sadeh Eid just a hundred days after the beginning of winter season and fifty days before their "Nouroz" (New Year) celebration, just when the cold weather began to yield to the upcoming spring's lovely warmth. Some fifteen thousand of the 97 thousand strong population of Iranian Zoroastrians currently live in Tehran, but the majority of the Iranian Zoroastrians live in Iran's central Yazd Province where most of their fire temples are concentrated. The Zoroastrians believe that Ashute Zoroaster was born in 3600 B.C. in Takht-e-Soleyman of Iran's Azarbaijan Province from her mother Daghou. He was selected as prophet of Ahura Mazda (God) at 30 and commissioned to invite his people to be just, tell the truth at all times and treat each other fairly. Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                  The Zoroastrians believe fire was created on such a day during the reign of King Housahng, from the mythical Pishdadian dynasty of Iranian kings that ruled over the vast ancient Persian empire. "Fire" is considered as the symbol of purity and knowledge in Zoroastrian faith. The Iranian Zoroastrians attended their Varjavand fire temple on the occasion, along with their "Moubads" (religious authorities) and while reciting their "Gat'has" (religious hymns), re-lit the temple's fire and prayed for the sovereignty of Iran inside the country and at all global scenes, while performing their other religious rituals. Ancient Iranians divided the year into two seasons, namely the "great summer season" and the "great winter season." the great summer season began on March 23rd and ended on October 22nd, while from then to the 20th of March was named as the great winter season. Thus, the ancient Iranians celebrated their Sadeh Eid just a hundred days after the beginning of winter season and fifty days before their "Nouroz" (New Year) celebration, just when the cold weather began to yield to the upcoming spring's lovely warmth. Some fifteen thousand of the 97 thousand strong population of Iranian Zoroastrians currently live in Tehran, but the majority of the Iranian Zoroastrians live in Iran's central Yazd Province where most of their fire temples are concentrated. The Zoroastrians believe that Ashute Zoroaster was born in 3600 B.C. in Takht-e-Soleyman of Iran's Azarbaijan Province from her mother Daghou. He was selected as prophet of Ahura Mazda (God) at 30 and commissioned to invite his people to be just, tell the truth at all times and treat each other fairly. Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                  "Fire" is considered as the symbol of purity and knowledge in Zoroastrian faith. The Iranian Zoroastrians attended their Varjavand fire temple on the occasion, along with their "Moubads" (religious authorities) and while reciting their "Gat'has" (religious hymns), re-lit the temple's fire and prayed for the sovereignty of Iran inside the country and at all global scenes, while performing their other religious rituals. Ancient Iranians divided the year into two seasons, namely the "great summer season" and the "great winter season." the great summer season began on March 23rd and ended on October 22nd, while from then to the 20th of March was named as the great winter season. Thus, the ancient Iranians celebrated their Sadeh Eid just a hundred days after the beginning of winter season and fifty days before their "Nouroz" (New Year) celebration, just when the cold weather began to yield to the upcoming spring's lovely warmth. Some fifteen thousand of the 97 thousand strong population of Iranian Zoroastrians currently live in Tehran, but the majority of the Iranian Zoroastrians live in Iran's central Yazd Province where most of their fire temples are concentrated. The Zoroastrians believe that Ashute Zoroaster was born in 3600 B.C. in Takht-e-Soleyman of Iran's Azarbaijan Province from her mother Daghou. He was selected as prophet of Ahura Mazda (God) at 30 and commissioned to invite his people to be just, tell the truth at all times and treat each other fairly. Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                  The Iranian Zoroastrians attended their Varjavand fire temple on the occasion, along with their "Moubads" (religious authorities) and while reciting their "Gat'has" (religious hymns), re-lit the temple's fire and prayed for the sovereignty of Iran inside the country and at all global scenes, while performing their other religious rituals. Ancient Iranians divided the year into two seasons, namely the "great summer season" and the "great winter season." the great summer season began on March 23rd and ended on October 22nd, while from then to the 20th of March was named as the great winter season. Thus, the ancient Iranians celebrated their Sadeh Eid just a hundred days after the beginning of winter season and fifty days before their "Nouroz" (New Year) celebration, just when the cold weather began to yield to the upcoming spring's lovely warmth. Some fifteen thousand of the 97 thousand strong population of Iranian Zoroastrians currently live in Tehran, but the majority of the Iranian Zoroastrians live in Iran's central Yazd Province where most of their fire temples are concentrated. The Zoroastrians believe that Ashute Zoroaster was born in 3600 B.C. in Takht-e-Soleyman of Iran's Azarbaijan Province from her mother Daghou. He was selected as prophet of Ahura Mazda (God) at 30 and commissioned to invite his people to be just, tell the truth at all times and treat each other fairly. Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                  Ancient Iranians divided the year into two seasons, namely the "great summer season" and the "great winter season." the great summer season began on March 23rd and ended on October 22nd, while from then to the 20th of March was named as the great winter season. Thus, the ancient Iranians celebrated their Sadeh Eid just a hundred days after the beginning of winter season and fifty days before their "Nouroz" (New Year) celebration, just when the cold weather began to yield to the upcoming spring's lovely warmth. Some fifteen thousand of the 97 thousand strong population of Iranian Zoroastrians currently live in Tehran, but the majority of the Iranian Zoroastrians live in Iran's central Yazd Province where most of their fire temples are concentrated. The Zoroastrians believe that Ashute Zoroaster was born in 3600 B.C. in Takht-e-Soleyman of Iran's Azarbaijan Province from her mother Daghou. He was selected as prophet of Ahura Mazda (God) at 30 and commissioned to invite his people to be just, tell the truth at all times and treat each other fairly. Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                  Thus, the ancient Iranians celebrated their Sadeh Eid just a hundred days after the beginning of winter season and fifty days before their "Nouroz" (New Year) celebration, just when the cold weather began to yield to the upcoming spring's lovely warmth. Some fifteen thousand of the 97 thousand strong population of Iranian Zoroastrians currently live in Tehran, but the majority of the Iranian Zoroastrians live in Iran's central Yazd Province where most of their fire temples are concentrated. The Zoroastrians believe that Ashute Zoroaster was born in 3600 B.C. in Takht-e-Soleyman of Iran's Azarbaijan Province from her mother Daghou. He was selected as prophet of Ahura Mazda (God) at 30 and commissioned to invite his people to be just, tell the truth at all times and treat each other fairly. Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                  Some fifteen thousand of the 97 thousand strong population of Iranian Zoroastrians currently live in Tehran, but the majority of the Iranian Zoroastrians live in Iran's central Yazd Province where most of their fire temples are concentrated. The Zoroastrians believe that Ashute Zoroaster was born in 3600 B.C. in Takht-e-Soleyman of Iran's Azarbaijan Province from her mother Daghou. He was selected as prophet of Ahura Mazda (God) at 30 and commissioned to invite his people to be just, tell the truth at all times and treat each other fairly. Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                  The Zoroastrians believe that Ashute Zoroaster was born in 3600 B.C. in Takht-e-Soleyman of Iran's Azarbaijan Province from her mother Daghou. He was selected as prophet of Ahura Mazda (God) at 30 and commissioned to invite his people to be just, tell the truth at all times and treat each other fairly. Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                  He was selected as prophet of Ahura Mazda (God) at 30 and commissioned to invite his people to be just, tell the truth at all times and treat each other fairly. Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                  Zoroaster was martyred at 77 at the fire temple of Balkh wile performing his prayers by turberator.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.