TEHRAN - Since the international financial crisis in 2008, the world has been undergoing major changes. A noticeable and worrying phenomenon is the resurgence of unilateralism, populism, protectionism, and isolationism. Voices against globalization is gathering momentum. Some countries have turned more inward-looking. Regional integration has slowed down and suffered setbacks. The international situation is facing more instability and uncertainty. The international system and order established in the aftermath of the Second World War are experiencing severe challenges. Debates and concerns about global governance and future development intensified. Various ideas and proposals have surfaced. In the face of profound changes in current international situation, we need to ask ourselves, multilateralism or unilateralism, which is the right option to address the complex global challenges and promote the security and welfare of mankind?  History has proven that the continuous expansion and interconnection of human activities is an irreversible trend. With advancement of industrial revolutions and rapid development of science and technology, especially the information technology today, the flow of people, goods, and information across the globe has reached an unprecedented scale, resulting in the increasing globalization and interdependence of nations. While greatly promoting the development of the world, globalization also produced complex impacts on the internal governance, stability, culture, interests and external relations of various countries. The benefits from globalization and the attitude towards it differ among nations. China believes no country can address the multiple challenges facing mankind single-handly. Countries need to work together in a responsible spirit so that common interests could be preserved. Politically, we should respect each other. Discussion of issues of common concern should be conducted on an equal footing. Cold War mentality and power politics should be abandoned for the sake of building a world of lasting peace, based on partnerships, equality and mutual-understanding. In the security field, we should commit ourselves to settling disputes and differences through dialogue. We need to join hands in the response to traditional and non-traditional threats, and oppose terrorism in all its forms. A new concept of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security should be fostered. Economically, we should promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation. To extend its benefits to all peoples, economic globalization needs to be more open, inclusive, and balanced. Multilateral trade system should be preserved to build an open world economy, and North-South development gap must be narrowed. Culturally, we should respect the diversity of civilizations. The coexistence, exchange and mutual learning between civilizations should be encouraged. Dialogue among civilizations should be promoted with a view to strengthening the bond of friendship and peace. Ecologically, we should adopt environment-friendly strategy, cooperate to tackle climate change, and protect our planet for the sake of human survival. The world peace, stability and development require extensive cooperation in good faith among nations and effective functioning of international establishments. Unilateral actions such as withdrawal from international organizations and regimes have caused serious concerns of the international society. Recently, while provoking trade conflicts with many countries, the U.S. on various occasions made unwarranted accusations against China. It claims China meddles in its internal affairs and elections, stealing American intellectual property, launching cyber-attacks against America, and bringing Debt Trap to developing countries. Such remarks confuse the right and wrong and reveal deep-rooted cold-war mentality. China’s development is mainly owed to Chinese People’s hard work and mutually beneficial cooperation with countries around the world. The Chinese government has neither the time nor interest in meddling in U.S. internal affairs and elections.  Since the implementation of reform and opening-up policy in 1978, China has made remarkable achievements. Over the years, China has contributed around 30% of global economic growth, ranking the first in the world. In the coming five years, China is expected to import $10 trillion of goods and service, attract $600 billion of foreign investment and make $750 billion of outbound investment. Chinese tourists will make 700 million oversea visits. China has set up more than 80 overseas economic and trade cooperation zones with countries along the “Belt and Road”, and created 244,000 job opportunities in these countries, among which more than 130,000 jobs every year in Africa. China is resolute in opening its door wider to the world. As a major move in opening its market, the first China International Import Expo will be held in November 2018 in Shanghai. It's China's firm belief that its development and the peace and prosperity of the world at large depend on an open global economy and a multilateral approach to world affairs.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.