The Leader made the remark in a message to the Hajj pilgrims during the disavowal of pagans ceremony held in the Arafat Desert on Friday. “The irrational and malicious behavior of the West has helped awaken Muslim nations. Whether they like it or not, today a deep-rooted movement has begun in the Islamic world which will lead to the independence, dignity, and rejuvenation of the Islamic ummah,” Ayatollah Khamenei said. "This is a decisive moment in history. Scholars, intellectuals, and politicians have a heavy responsibility on their shoulders. Any weakness, spiteful actions, or negligence on their part will lead to disaster. "The ulema should not remain silent in the face of efforts to foment sectarian strife. The intellectuals should not shirk from imparting the spirit of hope to our youth. The politicians and officials should not distance themselves from the people and must rely on them," Ayatollah Khamenei added. He also urged Islamic governments to strengthen their solidarity and use the power of the people to overcome the threats of the hegemonic powers. Today the U.S. and British intelligence services in Iraq, Lebanon, North Africa, and wherever else they can, are spreading the virus of sectarian strife, the Leader said, adding, “The congregation of Hajj keeps us immune from this deadly virus.” Underlining the need for the emergence of a united Islamic identity, the Leader said the U.S. government, Western capitalism, and the corrupt Zionist lobby have begun to sense the living truth of the Islamic awakening, and by admitting that their military might is useless in the face of this truth, they are using all their might to carry out political tricks. Muslims all over the world should realize that the time of humiliation and backwardness in the Islamic world is over and a new era has begun, he noted.
                  “The irrational and malicious behavior of the West has helped awaken Muslim nations. Whether they like it or not, today a deep-rooted movement has begun in the Islamic world which will lead to the independence, dignity, and rejuvenation of the Islamic ummah,” Ayatollah Khamenei said. "This is a decisive moment in history. Scholars, intellectuals, and politicians have a heavy responsibility on their shoulders. Any weakness, spiteful actions, or negligence on their part will lead to disaster. "The ulema should not remain silent in the face of efforts to foment sectarian strife. The intellectuals should not shirk from imparting the spirit of hope to our youth. The politicians and officials should not distance themselves from the people and must rely on them," Ayatollah Khamenei added. He also urged Islamic governments to strengthen their solidarity and use the power of the people to overcome the threats of the hegemonic powers. Today the U.S. and British intelligence services in Iraq, Lebanon, North Africa, and wherever else they can, are spreading the virus of sectarian strife, the Leader said, adding, “The congregation of Hajj keeps us immune from this deadly virus.” Underlining the need for the emergence of a united Islamic identity, the Leader said the U.S. government, Western capitalism, and the corrupt Zionist lobby have begun to sense the living truth of the Islamic awakening, and by admitting that their military might is useless in the face of this truth, they are using all their might to carry out political tricks. Muslims all over the world should realize that the time of humiliation and backwardness in the Islamic world is over and a new era has begun, he noted.
                  "This is a decisive moment in history. Scholars, intellectuals, and politicians have a heavy responsibility on their shoulders. Any weakness, spiteful actions, or negligence on their part will lead to disaster. "The ulema should not remain silent in the face of efforts to foment sectarian strife. The intellectuals should not shirk from imparting the spirit of hope to our youth. The politicians and officials should not distance themselves from the people and must rely on them," Ayatollah Khamenei added. He also urged Islamic governments to strengthen their solidarity and use the power of the people to overcome the threats of the hegemonic powers. Today the U.S. and British intelligence services in Iraq, Lebanon, North Africa, and wherever else they can, are spreading the virus of sectarian strife, the Leader said, adding, “The congregation of Hajj keeps us immune from this deadly virus.” Underlining the need for the emergence of a united Islamic identity, the Leader said the U.S. government, Western capitalism, and the corrupt Zionist lobby have begun to sense the living truth of the Islamic awakening, and by admitting that their military might is useless in the face of this truth, they are using all their might to carry out political tricks. Muslims all over the world should realize that the time of humiliation and backwardness in the Islamic world is over and a new era has begun, he noted.
                  "The ulema should not remain silent in the face of efforts to foment sectarian strife. The intellectuals should not shirk from imparting the spirit of hope to our youth. The politicians and officials should not distance themselves from the people and must rely on them," Ayatollah Khamenei added. He also urged Islamic governments to strengthen their solidarity and use the power of the people to overcome the threats of the hegemonic powers. Today the U.S. and British intelligence services in Iraq, Lebanon, North Africa, and wherever else they can, are spreading the virus of sectarian strife, the Leader said, adding, “The congregation of Hajj keeps us immune from this deadly virus.” Underlining the need for the emergence of a united Islamic identity, the Leader said the U.S. government, Western capitalism, and the corrupt Zionist lobby have begun to sense the living truth of the Islamic awakening, and by admitting that their military might is useless in the face of this truth, they are using all their might to carry out political tricks. Muslims all over the world should realize that the time of humiliation and backwardness in the Islamic world is over and a new era has begun, he noted.
                  He also urged Islamic governments to strengthen their solidarity and use the power of the people to overcome the threats of the hegemonic powers. Today the U.S. and British intelligence services in Iraq, Lebanon, North Africa, and wherever else they can, are spreading the virus of sectarian strife, the Leader said, adding, “The congregation of Hajj keeps us immune from this deadly virus.” Underlining the need for the emergence of a united Islamic identity, the Leader said the U.S. government, Western capitalism, and the corrupt Zionist lobby have begun to sense the living truth of the Islamic awakening, and by admitting that their military might is useless in the face of this truth, they are using all their might to carry out political tricks. Muslims all over the world should realize that the time of humiliation and backwardness in the Islamic world is over and a new era has begun, he noted.
                  Underlining the need for the emergence of a united Islamic identity, the Leader said the U.S. government, Western capitalism, and the corrupt Zionist lobby have begun to sense the living truth of the Islamic awakening, and by admitting that their military might is useless in the face of this truth, they are using all their might to carry out political tricks. Muslims all over the world should realize that the time of humiliation and backwardness in the Islamic world is over and a new era has begun, he noted.
                  Muslims all over the world should realize that the time of humiliation and backwardness in the Islamic world is over and a new era has begun, he noted.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.