Managing Director of Khorasan Province branch of Iran Touring and Tourism Organization Rassoul Akbari said that Iran is among the top 10 tourism poles of the world in terms of possessing historical and monumental sites and natural attractions, but our share from the tourism industry is unfortunately very minute. Speaking at the First Gathering of the Khorasan's Tourism Marketing and Propagation Commission, he added, "Some 16 billion rials is earmarked for the expansion and boosting of the country's tourism industry in the framework of the 15 year comprehensive development plan of Iran." He said it is predicted that this investment would gain back around 45 billion rials in five years' time. Akbari considered Khorasan Province as one of the tourism poles of the country, attracting some 90 percent of the Iranian travelers and foreign tourists annually. The tourists who choose to travel to Khorasan cities usually visit the religious, cultural, and historic sites of the province, as well as its beautiful natural resorts. The present obstacles in the way of attracting tourists and the possible ways to eliminate them, the best ways to promote the country's tourism industry, and the effective ways of information processing in that field were among the topics addressed at the session. Iran's International Tourism Fair was held in Tehran October 8-12. More than 55 Iranian and 14 foreign companies attended the fair. 1.2 million foreign tourists visited Iran last year and the figure is expected to increase up to more than two million in the current year. 
                  He said it is predicted that this investment would gain back around 45 billion rials in five years' time. Akbari considered Khorasan Province as one of the tourism poles of the country, attracting some 90 percent of the Iranian travelers and foreign tourists annually. The tourists who choose to travel to Khorasan cities usually visit the religious, cultural, and historic sites of the province, as well as its beautiful natural resorts. The present obstacles in the way of attracting tourists and the possible ways to eliminate them, the best ways to promote the country's tourism industry, and the effective ways of information processing in that field were among the topics addressed at the session. Iran's International Tourism Fair was held in Tehran October 8-12. More than 55 Iranian and 14 foreign companies attended the fair. 1.2 million foreign tourists visited Iran last year and the figure is expected to increase up to more than two million in the current year. 
                  Akbari considered Khorasan Province as one of the tourism poles of the country, attracting some 90 percent of the Iranian travelers and foreign tourists annually. The tourists who choose to travel to Khorasan cities usually visit the religious, cultural, and historic sites of the province, as well as its beautiful natural resorts. The present obstacles in the way of attracting tourists and the possible ways to eliminate them, the best ways to promote the country's tourism industry, and the effective ways of information processing in that field were among the topics addressed at the session. Iran's International Tourism Fair was held in Tehran October 8-12. More than 55 Iranian and 14 foreign companies attended the fair. 1.2 million foreign tourists visited Iran last year and the figure is expected to increase up to more than two million in the current year. 
                  The tourists who choose to travel to Khorasan cities usually visit the religious, cultural, and historic sites of the province, as well as its beautiful natural resorts. The present obstacles in the way of attracting tourists and the possible ways to eliminate them, the best ways to promote the country's tourism industry, and the effective ways of information processing in that field were among the topics addressed at the session. Iran's International Tourism Fair was held in Tehran October 8-12. More than 55 Iranian and 14 foreign companies attended the fair. 1.2 million foreign tourists visited Iran last year and the figure is expected to increase up to more than two million in the current year. 
                  The present obstacles in the way of attracting tourists and the possible ways to eliminate them, the best ways to promote the country's tourism industry, and the effective ways of information processing in that field were among the topics addressed at the session. Iran's International Tourism Fair was held in Tehran October 8-12. More than 55 Iranian and 14 foreign companies attended the fair. 1.2 million foreign tourists visited Iran last year and the figure is expected to increase up to more than two million in the current year. 
                  Iran's International Tourism Fair was held in Tehran October 8-12. More than 55 Iranian and 14 foreign companies attended the fair. 1.2 million foreign tourists visited Iran last year and the figure is expected to increase up to more than two million in the current year. 
                  More than 55 Iranian and 14 foreign companies attended the fair. 1.2 million foreign tourists visited Iran last year and the figure is expected to increase up to more than two million in the current year. 
                  1.2 million foreign tourists visited Iran last year and the figure is expected to increase up to more than two million in the current year. 
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.