The agreement for mutual cooperation is based on a memorandum of understanding (MOU) signed here Monday between Iran's Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs and German's Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development. Providing counseling facilities on new educational courses and sustained technical cooperation in welding and mechtronic training are among the articles of the MOU. Besides, the MOU also calls for counseling facilities to improve the quality of instructor training at Karaj Instructors Education Center (KIEC) aimed at holding courses for regional Persian-speaking states. Based on the MOU, the two states will conduct dialogues with the private sector on technical and professional training. Commissioning experts from the German Technical Cooperation Society (GTZ) to Iran to present counseling services at the Labor Ministry and to coordinate mutual cooperation on employment is also included in the MOU. Moreover, the temporary assignment of German specialists on the latest developments on the employment market to the Islamic Republic of Iran as well as holding a training and planning workshop to improve the training quality at KIEC are among the points agreed upon. The MOU also provides for research projects on expanding women's employment opportunities and in-service training for employees of KIEC in information and communication technology (ICT).
                  Providing counseling facilities on new educational courses and sustained technical cooperation in welding and mechtronic training are among the articles of the MOU. Besides, the MOU also calls for counseling facilities to improve the quality of instructor training at Karaj Instructors Education Center (KIEC) aimed at holding courses for regional Persian-speaking states. Based on the MOU, the two states will conduct dialogues with the private sector on technical and professional training. Commissioning experts from the German Technical Cooperation Society (GTZ) to Iran to present counseling services at the Labor Ministry and to coordinate mutual cooperation on employment is also included in the MOU. Moreover, the temporary assignment of German specialists on the latest developments on the employment market to the Islamic Republic of Iran as well as holding a training and planning workshop to improve the training quality at KIEC are among the points agreed upon. The MOU also provides for research projects on expanding women's employment opportunities and in-service training for employees of KIEC in information and communication technology (ICT).
                  Besides, the MOU also calls for counseling facilities to improve the quality of instructor training at Karaj Instructors Education Center (KIEC) aimed at holding courses for regional Persian-speaking states. Based on the MOU, the two states will conduct dialogues with the private sector on technical and professional training. Commissioning experts from the German Technical Cooperation Society (GTZ) to Iran to present counseling services at the Labor Ministry and to coordinate mutual cooperation on employment is also included in the MOU. Moreover, the temporary assignment of German specialists on the latest developments on the employment market to the Islamic Republic of Iran as well as holding a training and planning workshop to improve the training quality at KIEC are among the points agreed upon. The MOU also provides for research projects on expanding women's employment opportunities and in-service training for employees of KIEC in information and communication technology (ICT).
                  Based on the MOU, the two states will conduct dialogues with the private sector on technical and professional training. Commissioning experts from the German Technical Cooperation Society (GTZ) to Iran to present counseling services at the Labor Ministry and to coordinate mutual cooperation on employment is also included in the MOU. Moreover, the temporary assignment of German specialists on the latest developments on the employment market to the Islamic Republic of Iran as well as holding a training and planning workshop to improve the training quality at KIEC are among the points agreed upon. The MOU also provides for research projects on expanding women's employment opportunities and in-service training for employees of KIEC in information and communication technology (ICT).
                  Commissioning experts from the German Technical Cooperation Society (GTZ) to Iran to present counseling services at the Labor Ministry and to coordinate mutual cooperation on employment is also included in the MOU. Moreover, the temporary assignment of German specialists on the latest developments on the employment market to the Islamic Republic of Iran as well as holding a training and planning workshop to improve the training quality at KIEC are among the points agreed upon. The MOU also provides for research projects on expanding women's employment opportunities and in-service training for employees of KIEC in information and communication technology (ICT).
                  Moreover, the temporary assignment of German specialists on the latest developments on the employment market to the Islamic Republic of Iran as well as holding a training and planning workshop to improve the training quality at KIEC are among the points agreed upon. The MOU also provides for research projects on expanding women's employment opportunities and in-service training for employees of KIEC in information and communication technology (ICT).
                  The MOU also provides for research projects on expanding women's employment opportunities and in-service training for employees of KIEC in information and communication technology (ICT).
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.