Following the researches conducted in Mazandaran Province, a center for examining the ecosystem potentials of Miankaleh and Central Alborz protected areas will be established in these two regions. “There are some important ecosystems in Miankaleh and Central Alborz protected areas which will be identified and studied within this research project and then they will be isolated from other parts and some strict regulations will be implied in order to prevent any kind of damages. Only the researchers and some students who obtain written permissions will be allowed to enter these areas and it will be forbidden for ordinary people,” said Rasul Ashrafipur, director of Control and Inspection Office of Mazandaran Department of Environment. According to Ashrafipur, these two protected areas have great tourism potentials which will be announced to the Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization of Iran after identifying them to establish some tourism infrastructures there in accordance with the natural conditions of the area. Miankaleh with a 66,800 hectare area is located 12 kilometers from the city of Behshahr in Mazandaran province, north of Iran. It is a dramatic, marvelous natural site with some unique types of birds and animals such as the yellow spotted deer. Miankaleh Wildlife Refuge, with an area of 7,000 hectares, was designated as a “Biosphere Reserve” by UNESCO. Also, the Miankaleh Wetland, located southwest of Miankaleh and extending over an area of more than 50 hectares, is one of the most important international wetlands of Iran. It is the host of thousands of migrating birds every year. On the other hand, Central Alborz protected area, with 292,000 hectare area, is also located in Mazandaran province between the cities of Noshahr, Chalus and Nur in Alborz Mountain skirts. This is a high forest area with some kind of unique plant and animal species.
                  “There are some important ecosystems in Miankaleh and Central Alborz protected areas which will be identified and studied within this research project and then they will be isolated from other parts and some strict regulations will be implied in order to prevent any kind of damages. Only the researchers and some students who obtain written permissions will be allowed to enter these areas and it will be forbidden for ordinary people,” said Rasul Ashrafipur, director of Control and Inspection Office of Mazandaran Department of Environment. According to Ashrafipur, these two protected areas have great tourism potentials which will be announced to the Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization of Iran after identifying them to establish some tourism infrastructures there in accordance with the natural conditions of the area. Miankaleh with a 66,800 hectare area is located 12 kilometers from the city of Behshahr in Mazandaran province, north of Iran. It is a dramatic, marvelous natural site with some unique types of birds and animals such as the yellow spotted deer. Miankaleh Wildlife Refuge, with an area of 7,000 hectares, was designated as a “Biosphere Reserve” by UNESCO. Also, the Miankaleh Wetland, located southwest of Miankaleh and extending over an area of more than 50 hectares, is one of the most important international wetlands of Iran. It is the host of thousands of migrating birds every year. On the other hand, Central Alborz protected area, with 292,000 hectare area, is also located in Mazandaran province between the cities of Noshahr, Chalus and Nur in Alborz Mountain skirts. This is a high forest area with some kind of unique plant and animal species.
                  According to Ashrafipur, these two protected areas have great tourism potentials which will be announced to the Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization of Iran after identifying them to establish some tourism infrastructures there in accordance with the natural conditions of the area. Miankaleh with a 66,800 hectare area is located 12 kilometers from the city of Behshahr in Mazandaran province, north of Iran. It is a dramatic, marvelous natural site with some unique types of birds and animals such as the yellow spotted deer. Miankaleh Wildlife Refuge, with an area of 7,000 hectares, was designated as a “Biosphere Reserve” by UNESCO. Also, the Miankaleh Wetland, located southwest of Miankaleh and extending over an area of more than 50 hectares, is one of the most important international wetlands of Iran. It is the host of thousands of migrating birds every year. On the other hand, Central Alborz protected area, with 292,000 hectare area, is also located in Mazandaran province between the cities of Noshahr, Chalus and Nur in Alborz Mountain skirts. This is a high forest area with some kind of unique plant and animal species.
                  Miankaleh with a 66,800 hectare area is located 12 kilometers from the city of Behshahr in Mazandaran province, north of Iran. It is a dramatic, marvelous natural site with some unique types of birds and animals such as the yellow spotted deer. Miankaleh Wildlife Refuge, with an area of 7,000 hectares, was designated as a “Biosphere Reserve” by UNESCO. Also, the Miankaleh Wetland, located southwest of Miankaleh and extending over an area of more than 50 hectares, is one of the most important international wetlands of Iran. It is the host of thousands of migrating birds every year. On the other hand, Central Alborz protected area, with 292,000 hectare area, is also located in Mazandaran province between the cities of Noshahr, Chalus and Nur in Alborz Mountain skirts. This is a high forest area with some kind of unique plant and animal species.
                  On the other hand, Central Alborz protected area, with 292,000 hectare area, is also located in Mazandaran province between the cities of Noshahr, Chalus and Nur in Alborz Mountain skirts. This is a high forest area with some kind of unique plant and animal species.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.