With more than 450 speakers and 10,000 visitors from over 60 countries, the Euro Finance Week is one of the largest congress and trade fair events of its kind. With over 30 symposia and more than 150 panel discussions and workshops, the event covers current issues in the finance and insurance industries from November 13 through 17. Speakers include German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Czech President Vaclav Klaus, French Trade Minister Christine Lagarde and the vice-president of the European Bank, Lucas D. Papademos. The conference highlights include international financial and economic policy congresses such as the Frankfurt European Banking Congress and the Congress on Central and Eastern Europe. Symposia such as the Euro Debt Market Conference, the Conference on Anti-Money Laundering and the Islamic Banking Conference are addressed to experts worldwide, inviting them to join in an exchange of opinions on current developments. The array of information on offer for IT services is rounded off by the European Banking and Insurance Fair (EBIF), Europe's largest leading technology trade fair for banks and insurance companies. Around 250 exhibitors use the EBIF every year as a platform to inform more than 7,000 professional visitors of their latest products and services.
                  With over 30 symposia and more than 150 panel discussions and workshops, the event covers current issues in the finance and insurance industries from November 13 through 17. Speakers include German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Czech President Vaclav Klaus, French Trade Minister Christine Lagarde and the vice-president of the European Bank, Lucas D. Papademos. The conference highlights include international financial and economic policy congresses such as the Frankfurt European Banking Congress and the Congress on Central and Eastern Europe. Symposia such as the Euro Debt Market Conference, the Conference on Anti-Money Laundering and the Islamic Banking Conference are addressed to experts worldwide, inviting them to join in an exchange of opinions on current developments. The array of information on offer for IT services is rounded off by the European Banking and Insurance Fair (EBIF), Europe's largest leading technology trade fair for banks and insurance companies. Around 250 exhibitors use the EBIF every year as a platform to inform more than 7,000 professional visitors of their latest products and services.
                  Speakers include German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Czech President Vaclav Klaus, French Trade Minister Christine Lagarde and the vice-president of the European Bank, Lucas D. Papademos. The conference highlights include international financial and economic policy congresses such as the Frankfurt European Banking Congress and the Congress on Central and Eastern Europe. Symposia such as the Euro Debt Market Conference, the Conference on Anti-Money Laundering and the Islamic Banking Conference are addressed to experts worldwide, inviting them to join in an exchange of opinions on current developments. The array of information on offer for IT services is rounded off by the European Banking and Insurance Fair (EBIF), Europe's largest leading technology trade fair for banks and insurance companies. Around 250 exhibitors use the EBIF every year as a platform to inform more than 7,000 professional visitors of their latest products and services.
                  The conference highlights include international financial and economic policy congresses such as the Frankfurt European Banking Congress and the Congress on Central and Eastern Europe. Symposia such as the Euro Debt Market Conference, the Conference on Anti-Money Laundering and the Islamic Banking Conference are addressed to experts worldwide, inviting them to join in an exchange of opinions on current developments. The array of information on offer for IT services is rounded off by the European Banking and Insurance Fair (EBIF), Europe's largest leading technology trade fair for banks and insurance companies. Around 250 exhibitors use the EBIF every year as a platform to inform more than 7,000 professional visitors of their latest products and services.
                  Symposia such as the Euro Debt Market Conference, the Conference on Anti-Money Laundering and the Islamic Banking Conference are addressed to experts worldwide, inviting them to join in an exchange of opinions on current developments. The array of information on offer for IT services is rounded off by the European Banking and Insurance Fair (EBIF), Europe's largest leading technology trade fair for banks and insurance companies. Around 250 exhibitors use the EBIF every year as a platform to inform more than 7,000 professional visitors of their latest products and services.
                  The array of information on offer for IT services is rounded off by the European Banking and Insurance Fair (EBIF), Europe's largest leading technology trade fair for banks and insurance companies. Around 250 exhibitors use the EBIF every year as a platform to inform more than 7,000 professional visitors of their latest products and services.
                  Around 250 exhibitors use the EBIF every year as a platform to inform more than 7,000 professional visitors of their latest products and services.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.