"The U.S. meddles in national affairs of other countries sometimes in the form of coup d'etat and sometimes under pretext of campaign against terrorism," he said while addressing Majlis formal session on occasion of anniversary of the US and Britain sponsored coup d'etat in Iran in August 19, 1953. "The U.S. has always raised a pretext for its interference. It meddled in Iraqi domestic affairs under a pretext to establish democracy and freedom in that country and the international campaign against terrorism," he added. The U.S. staged a coup d'etat in Iran in 1953 under a pretext to fight against communism, he said, adding that it was a coup d'etat against nationalist government of Prime Minister Mohammad Mossadeq who was architect of nationalizing Iranian oil industry. The then government of Iran had taken legal action against British colonialism with the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Hague in a bid to nationalize Iranian oil industry. "These were apparent pretext, but, oil was their main reason. They strived to prevent the Iranian nation from access to oil. They said oil should be in hands of the U.S. and British companies. "The U.S. President George W. Bush has recently said the U.S. will not hand over the fate of oil-rich country of Iraq to terrorists proving that the U.S. pretext of lack of democracy in the Middle East region is also a lie." The speaker added, "If the U.S. tells the truth, why it backs Israeli campaign against the popular government of Hamas and why the U.S. kept silent toward illegal actions of the Zionist regime against the democratically elected government of Palestinians?" Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  "The U.S. has always raised a pretext for its interference. It meddled in Iraqi domestic affairs under a pretext to establish democracy and freedom in that country and the international campaign against terrorism," he added. The U.S. staged a coup d'etat in Iran in 1953 under a pretext to fight against communism, he said, adding that it was a coup d'etat against nationalist government of Prime Minister Mohammad Mossadeq who was architect of nationalizing Iranian oil industry. The then government of Iran had taken legal action against British colonialism with the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Hague in a bid to nationalize Iranian oil industry. "These were apparent pretext, but, oil was their main reason. They strived to prevent the Iranian nation from access to oil. They said oil should be in hands of the U.S. and British companies. "The U.S. President George W. Bush has recently said the U.S. will not hand over the fate of oil-rich country of Iraq to terrorists proving that the U.S. pretext of lack of democracy in the Middle East region is also a lie." The speaker added, "If the U.S. tells the truth, why it backs Israeli campaign against the popular government of Hamas and why the U.S. kept silent toward illegal actions of the Zionist regime against the democratically elected government of Palestinians?" Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  The U.S. staged a coup d'etat in Iran in 1953 under a pretext to fight against communism, he said, adding that it was a coup d'etat against nationalist government of Prime Minister Mohammad Mossadeq who was architect of nationalizing Iranian oil industry. The then government of Iran had taken legal action against British colonialism with the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Hague in a bid to nationalize Iranian oil industry. "These were apparent pretext, but, oil was their main reason. They strived to prevent the Iranian nation from access to oil. They said oil should be in hands of the U.S. and British companies. "The U.S. President George W. Bush has recently said the U.S. will not hand over the fate of oil-rich country of Iraq to terrorists proving that the U.S. pretext of lack of democracy in the Middle East region is also a lie." The speaker added, "If the U.S. tells the truth, why it backs Israeli campaign against the popular government of Hamas and why the U.S. kept silent toward illegal actions of the Zionist regime against the democratically elected government of Palestinians?" Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  The then government of Iran had taken legal action against British colonialism with the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Hague in a bid to nationalize Iranian oil industry. "These were apparent pretext, but, oil was their main reason. They strived to prevent the Iranian nation from access to oil. They said oil should be in hands of the U.S. and British companies. "The U.S. President George W. Bush has recently said the U.S. will not hand over the fate of oil-rich country of Iraq to terrorists proving that the U.S. pretext of lack of democracy in the Middle East region is also a lie." The speaker added, "If the U.S. tells the truth, why it backs Israeli campaign against the popular government of Hamas and why the U.S. kept silent toward illegal actions of the Zionist regime against the democratically elected government of Palestinians?" Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  "These were apparent pretext, but, oil was their main reason. They strived to prevent the Iranian nation from access to oil. They said oil should be in hands of the U.S. and British companies. "The U.S. President George W. Bush has recently said the U.S. will not hand over the fate of oil-rich country of Iraq to terrorists proving that the U.S. pretext of lack of democracy in the Middle East region is also a lie." The speaker added, "If the U.S. tells the truth, why it backs Israeli campaign against the popular government of Hamas and why the U.S. kept silent toward illegal actions of the Zionist regime against the democratically elected government of Palestinians?" Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  They strived to prevent the Iranian nation from access to oil. They said oil should be in hands of the U.S. and British companies. "The U.S. President George W. Bush has recently said the U.S. will not hand over the fate of oil-rich country of Iraq to terrorists proving that the U.S. pretext of lack of democracy in the Middle East region is also a lie." The speaker added, "If the U.S. tells the truth, why it backs Israeli campaign against the popular government of Hamas and why the U.S. kept silent toward illegal actions of the Zionist regime against the democratically elected government of Palestinians?" Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  They said oil should be in hands of the U.S. and British companies. "The U.S. President George W. Bush has recently said the U.S. will not hand over the fate of oil-rich country of Iraq to terrorists proving that the U.S. pretext of lack of democracy in the Middle East region is also a lie." The speaker added, "If the U.S. tells the truth, why it backs Israeli campaign against the popular government of Hamas and why the U.S. kept silent toward illegal actions of the Zionist regime against the democratically elected government of Palestinians?" Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  "The U.S. President George W. Bush has recently said the U.S. will not hand over the fate of oil-rich country of Iraq to terrorists proving that the U.S. pretext of lack of democracy in the Middle East region is also a lie." The speaker added, "If the U.S. tells the truth, why it backs Israeli campaign against the popular government of Hamas and why the U.S. kept silent toward illegal actions of the Zionist regime against the democratically elected government of Palestinians?" Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  The speaker added, "If the U.S. tells the truth, why it backs Israeli campaign against the popular government of Hamas and why the U.S. kept silent toward illegal actions of the Zionist regime against the democratically elected government of Palestinians?" Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  Haddad-Adel addressed the young Iranians saying they should study the history not to be embarrassed by baseless allegations against Iran. "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                  "Fortunately, the young Iranians are wise and aware,” he further said.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.