“Tehran welcomes investment of Chinese firms in economic and industrial projects in the country given the fact that relations are expanding,” he said during a meeting with China's Deputy Foreign Minister Li Xing Hua. He praised the exchange of high-ranking delegations between Iran and China in the current year aimed at promoting relations. The Chinese official said at the meeting that Beijing also admires the participation of Chinese firms in economic and development projects in Iran. The role of Chinese companies in various sectors in Iran, particularly in the oil and gas sector, is of great importance in expansion of relations, he added. Meanwhile, the Iranian and Chinese officials exchanged views on current developments in the Middle East, Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan. Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Asia-Pacific affairs Mehdi Safari arrived in Beijing Monday morning to exchange views with Chinese officials on issues of mutual interest as well as some regional and international issues. Earlier Monday he held a meeting with China's deputy Foreign Minister for International Affairs Zhang Ye Sui during which they discussed greater cooperation between their foreign ministries as well as on the Iran nuclear issue.
                  He praised the exchange of high-ranking delegations between Iran and China in the current year aimed at promoting relations. The Chinese official said at the meeting that Beijing also admires the participation of Chinese firms in economic and development projects in Iran. The role of Chinese companies in various sectors in Iran, particularly in the oil and gas sector, is of great importance in expansion of relations, he added. Meanwhile, the Iranian and Chinese officials exchanged views on current developments in the Middle East, Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan. Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Asia-Pacific affairs Mehdi Safari arrived in Beijing Monday morning to exchange views with Chinese officials on issues of mutual interest as well as some regional and international issues. Earlier Monday he held a meeting with China's deputy Foreign Minister for International Affairs Zhang Ye Sui during which they discussed greater cooperation between their foreign ministries as well as on the Iran nuclear issue.
                  The Chinese official said at the meeting that Beijing also admires the participation of Chinese firms in economic and development projects in Iran. The role of Chinese companies in various sectors in Iran, particularly in the oil and gas sector, is of great importance in expansion of relations, he added. Meanwhile, the Iranian and Chinese officials exchanged views on current developments in the Middle East, Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan. Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Asia-Pacific affairs Mehdi Safari arrived in Beijing Monday morning to exchange views with Chinese officials on issues of mutual interest as well as some regional and international issues. Earlier Monday he held a meeting with China's deputy Foreign Minister for International Affairs Zhang Ye Sui during which they discussed greater cooperation between their foreign ministries as well as on the Iran nuclear issue.
                  The role of Chinese companies in various sectors in Iran, particularly in the oil and gas sector, is of great importance in expansion of relations, he added. Meanwhile, the Iranian and Chinese officials exchanged views on current developments in the Middle East, Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan. Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Asia-Pacific affairs Mehdi Safari arrived in Beijing Monday morning to exchange views with Chinese officials on issues of mutual interest as well as some regional and international issues. Earlier Monday he held a meeting with China's deputy Foreign Minister for International Affairs Zhang Ye Sui during which they discussed greater cooperation between their foreign ministries as well as on the Iran nuclear issue.
                  Meanwhile, the Iranian and Chinese officials exchanged views on current developments in the Middle East, Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan. Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Asia-Pacific affairs Mehdi Safari arrived in Beijing Monday morning to exchange views with Chinese officials on issues of mutual interest as well as some regional and international issues. Earlier Monday he held a meeting with China's deputy Foreign Minister for International Affairs Zhang Ye Sui during which they discussed greater cooperation between their foreign ministries as well as on the Iran nuclear issue.
                  Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Asia-Pacific affairs Mehdi Safari arrived in Beijing Monday morning to exchange views with Chinese officials on issues of mutual interest as well as some regional and international issues. Earlier Monday he held a meeting with China's deputy Foreign Minister for International Affairs Zhang Ye Sui during which they discussed greater cooperation between their foreign ministries as well as on the Iran nuclear issue.
                  Earlier Monday he held a meeting with China's deputy Foreign Minister for International Affairs Zhang Ye Sui during which they discussed greater cooperation between their foreign ministries as well as on the Iran nuclear issue.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.