“The duty of the Expediency Council is… to prepare the ground for more dynamic interaction between the three branches of government and other governmental institutes,” Ayatollah Khamenei said in an address. The Leader called on the new members of the EC to complete and reform its tasks and methods and to come up with new initiatives for the development of the country. The EC should carefully decide on what is good for the country without creating unwanted obstacles on the path toward national development. In the Iranian legislative system, every parliamentary bill must be approved by the watchdog Guardian Council to become a law and if a problem arises between the two bodies, the Expediency Council arbitrates to resolve the issue. One of the heaviest responsibilities on the shoulders of the Expediency Council is to distinguish the important priorities, “therefore, the Expediency Council is comprised of talented people of various persuasions and officials of the three branches of government, making it the symbol of the unity of the Iranian ruling system,” the Leader said. He also called on EC members to be more active and up-to-date and to revise their policies based on the circumstances of the day. “The Expediency Council should establish more relations with talented scholars in universities and seminaries and utilize their professional views on various matters,” he added. At this stage, the country is in very good condition and is making extraordinary advances in the scientific, social, and cultural spheres, hence all government institutions should redouble their efforts to enhance this trend, he noted. Prior to the Leader’s remarks, Expediency Council Chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that the new members have been chosen based on their professional skills without regard to their political inclinations.
                  The Leader called on the new members of the EC to complete and reform its tasks and methods and to come up with new initiatives for the development of the country. The EC should carefully decide on what is good for the country without creating unwanted obstacles on the path toward national development. In the Iranian legislative system, every parliamentary bill must be approved by the watchdog Guardian Council to become a law and if a problem arises between the two bodies, the Expediency Council arbitrates to resolve the issue. One of the heaviest responsibilities on the shoulders of the Expediency Council is to distinguish the important priorities, “therefore, the Expediency Council is comprised of talented people of various persuasions and officials of the three branches of government, making it the symbol of the unity of the Iranian ruling system,” the Leader said. He also called on EC members to be more active and up-to-date and to revise their policies based on the circumstances of the day. “The Expediency Council should establish more relations with talented scholars in universities and seminaries and utilize their professional views on various matters,” he added. At this stage, the country is in very good condition and is making extraordinary advances in the scientific, social, and cultural spheres, hence all government institutions should redouble their efforts to enhance this trend, he noted. Prior to the Leader’s remarks, Expediency Council Chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that the new members have been chosen based on their professional skills without regard to their political inclinations.
                  The EC should carefully decide on what is good for the country without creating unwanted obstacles on the path toward national development. In the Iranian legislative system, every parliamentary bill must be approved by the watchdog Guardian Council to become a law and if a problem arises between the two bodies, the Expediency Council arbitrates to resolve the issue. One of the heaviest responsibilities on the shoulders of the Expediency Council is to distinguish the important priorities, “therefore, the Expediency Council is comprised of talented people of various persuasions and officials of the three branches of government, making it the symbol of the unity of the Iranian ruling system,” the Leader said. He also called on EC members to be more active and up-to-date and to revise their policies based on the circumstances of the day. “The Expediency Council should establish more relations with talented scholars in universities and seminaries and utilize their professional views on various matters,” he added. At this stage, the country is in very good condition and is making extraordinary advances in the scientific, social, and cultural spheres, hence all government institutions should redouble their efforts to enhance this trend, he noted. Prior to the Leader’s remarks, Expediency Council Chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that the new members have been chosen based on their professional skills without regard to their political inclinations.
                  In the Iranian legislative system, every parliamentary bill must be approved by the watchdog Guardian Council to become a law and if a problem arises between the two bodies, the Expediency Council arbitrates to resolve the issue. One of the heaviest responsibilities on the shoulders of the Expediency Council is to distinguish the important priorities, “therefore, the Expediency Council is comprised of talented people of various persuasions and officials of the three branches of government, making it the symbol of the unity of the Iranian ruling system,” the Leader said. He also called on EC members to be more active and up-to-date and to revise their policies based on the circumstances of the day. “The Expediency Council should establish more relations with talented scholars in universities and seminaries and utilize their professional views on various matters,” he added. At this stage, the country is in very good condition and is making extraordinary advances in the scientific, social, and cultural spheres, hence all government institutions should redouble their efforts to enhance this trend, he noted. Prior to the Leader’s remarks, Expediency Council Chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that the new members have been chosen based on their professional skills without regard to their political inclinations.
                  One of the heaviest responsibilities on the shoulders of the Expediency Council is to distinguish the important priorities, “therefore, the Expediency Council is comprised of talented people of various persuasions and officials of the three branches of government, making it the symbol of the unity of the Iranian ruling system,” the Leader said. He also called on EC members to be more active and up-to-date and to revise their policies based on the circumstances of the day. “The Expediency Council should establish more relations with talented scholars in universities and seminaries and utilize their professional views on various matters,” he added. At this stage, the country is in very good condition and is making extraordinary advances in the scientific, social, and cultural spheres, hence all government institutions should redouble their efforts to enhance this trend, he noted. Prior to the Leader’s remarks, Expediency Council Chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that the new members have been chosen based on their professional skills without regard to their political inclinations.
                  He also called on EC members to be more active and up-to-date and to revise their policies based on the circumstances of the day. “The Expediency Council should establish more relations with talented scholars in universities and seminaries and utilize their professional views on various matters,” he added. At this stage, the country is in very good condition and is making extraordinary advances in the scientific, social, and cultural spheres, hence all government institutions should redouble their efforts to enhance this trend, he noted. Prior to the Leader’s remarks, Expediency Council Chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that the new members have been chosen based on their professional skills without regard to their political inclinations.
                  “The Expediency Council should establish more relations with talented scholars in universities and seminaries and utilize their professional views on various matters,” he added. At this stage, the country is in very good condition and is making extraordinary advances in the scientific, social, and cultural spheres, hence all government institutions should redouble their efforts to enhance this trend, he noted. Prior to the Leader’s remarks, Expediency Council Chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that the new members have been chosen based on their professional skills without regard to their political inclinations.
                  At this stage, the country is in very good condition and is making extraordinary advances in the scientific, social, and cultural spheres, hence all government institutions should redouble their efforts to enhance this trend, he noted. Prior to the Leader’s remarks, Expediency Council Chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that the new members have been chosen based on their professional skills without regard to their political inclinations.
                  Prior to the Leader’s remarks, Expediency Council Chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that the new members have been chosen based on their professional skills without regard to their political inclinations.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.