TEHRAN - About three years has passed since Saudis and their allies started war and bloodshed in Yemen. Today, after this long time, Yemen has become the symbol of Saudi Arabia's defeat in West Asia. However, according to "Colin Powell", the former U.S. Secretary of State, Saudi Arabia was supposed to seize Yemen in14 days and destroy the country's revolution. But now, Riyadh is facing the increasing costs of its failure in various Yemeni cities.  Most regional analysts and experts agree that Riyadh and its allies are the losers of the Yemen war, and this is what scares "Mohammed bin Salman", the crown prince of Saudi Arabia and other agents of the Yemen war most. Saudi Arabia leads the military alliance against Yemen, consisting of nine Arab countries. Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, Senegal and Sudan also belong to this military alliance.  However, today, the cost of Saudis' defeat in Yemen has involved other members of the coalition too. Undoubtedly, these countries have to be held responsible for their crimes against the Yemeni people, and they must be condemned to pay the heavy costs of this failure in the future. In any case, it has been three years now that the defenseless people of Yemen are living under the aggression of al Saud and its allies. These three years of Saudi aggression led to Riyadh's heavy defeat, the death of a large number of aggressive forces and, most importantly, the survival of the Yemeni revolution. Sanaa and Aden and Ma'rib have become the symbols of the defeat of Al Saud in Yemen.  Saudi Arabia has even lost the power to regulate its relations with its allies in Yemen. The controversy that has formed between Riyadh and the United Arab Emirates in Yemen can be analyzed in the same vein. These conflicts are the result of the erosion of the Yemeni war and the joint defeat of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Another point to consider is that Saudi Arabia, in spite of al Qaeda's help and extensive support, has failed to defeat the revolution of the Yemeni people and to destroy this massive popular movement. The death of hundreds of Saudi and Emirati military forces in this war marks the rise of the Yemeni nation's stronghold against Al Saud and its aggressive allies.  It is a nation that has been able to humiliate Al Saud and exacerbate existing gaps between the Saudis. Now the situation of Saudi Arabia and its allies is so disordered that even the Western rivals of Riyadh can no longer close their eyes to the heavy defeat of Saudis in Yemen. They can no longer justify this great frustration. Here is another point that requires attention: Despite the extensive support of the United States, and in particular Trump's government of Saudi Arabia, this country has failed in Yemen. During the last year, Trump sold a massive amount of weapons to Saudi Arabia to make money for the U.S. Treasury, and to achieve one of its regional goals (the destruction of the Yemeni revolution). However, the U.S. President's aids to the Saudi leadership couldn't rescue the Saudi family in Yemen war.  At present, Saudi Arabia has no choice but to declare its failures in Yemen. An issue that is still hard to understand for Riyadh and its supporters. However, it is clear to everyone that, the later the official announcement of this defeat, the higher the cost of Saudis' defeat in Yemen. UN Failure in the Bloody Test of Yemen The next important issue that needs to be taken into consideration in the Yemeni war, is the failure of the United Nations, and especially the Security Council, in the face of this bloody war. The killing of the Yemeni people, especially women and children, the spread of cholera among a large number of Yemeni children and the blockade of Yemen's food, are only part of the right violations that the UN not only closed its eyes on, but also left the Saudi regime open-handed in continuing its crimes.  The United Nations doesn't play an effective role in the developments happening in Yemen, but rather attempts to defeat the Yemeni revolution. The strong attachment of both former and current Secretary-Generals of the United Nations (Ban Ki-moon and Guterres) to Washington and Tel Aviv has strengthened this trend. During Ban Ki-moon time, we even witnessed the withdrawal of Saudi Arabia's name from the list of war criminals: A truly flagrant action that put the UN's role in dealing with humanitarian crises under question. However, the story does not end there! The reverse and negative role of the United Nations in Yemen has once again shown itself in the escape to the former president of the country. A senior member of the Yemeni High-Electoral Committee said to "Al Maydeen" the primary researches showed that "Jamal Benomar", the UN Yemen envoy, helped "Abdo Rabbo Mansour Hadi" escape to Aden. At present, the crimes of Saudi and Emirati authorities in Yemen are rising day by day. Despite the brutal killing of tens of thousands of Yemeni people by Riyadh, the United Nations still refuses to condemn the Saudis. It even refuses to introduce these crimes as a war crime (which deserve punishment). The world public opinion, and especially people of the region, are angry about the continuation of this war, strongly against the reverse role played by the United Nations in the Yemeni war, and the direct support of the permanent members of the Security Council (Britain, France and Germany).  Since the start of the Yemeni war, about 9,000 people have been killed, and tens of thousands have been injured. According to UN data in Yemen, about 8.4 million people are at risk of hunger, and there have been many victims of cholera in the country. But Saudi Arabia and its allies continue their bloodshed, and bombard the country's defenseless people. The main question, however, is that despite knowing the terrible conditions of the Yemeni people, why does the UN avoid confronting Saudi Arabia's crimes?! All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.