He held talks with Ayatollah Lankarani, Ayatollah Javadi Amoli, Ayatollah Nasser Makarem Shirazi, Ayatollah Youssef Sane'i, Ayatollah Mousavi Ardebili, Ayatollah Safi, Ayatollah Nouri Hamedani, Ayatollah Behjat, Ayatollah Amini, Ayatollah Meshkini and Ayatollah Sobhani on those cultural issues that might have religious impact. According to IRNA, the religious leaders made some recommendations on promoting Islamic thoughts with the youth. He said that the holy Qom has a unique status as an internationally acknowledged center for Islamic studies. Masjed-Jame'i said that 40,000 students are studying at the theological centers of Qom and there are 14 higher education centers and 240 schools for research studies in the province as well as 80 publications and tens of specialized libraries. Ayatollah Makarem Shirazi called for setting up a faculty of the Islamic arts in Qom. Ayatollah Sane'i called for respecting the writers and the artists nationwide. He said that the men of letters should never be disrespected. The ayatollah called for promoting tourism and protecting the cultural heritage of the nation. Ayatollah Mousavi Ardebili said that the scholars in theological centers and students in universities should employ a shared language for their scientific and cultural purposes. Chairman of the Assembly of Experts Ayatollah Ali Meshkini appreciated President Seyed Mohammad Khatami's contribution to Qoranic teachings and said that the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance has taken effective steps in this respect. Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
  According to IRNA, the religious leaders made some recommendations on promoting Islamic thoughts with the youth. He said that the holy Qom has a unique status as an internationally acknowledged center for Islamic studies. Masjed-Jame'i said that 40,000 students are studying at the theological centers of Qom and there are 14 higher education centers and 240 schools for research studies in the province as well as 80 publications and tens of specialized libraries. Ayatollah Makarem Shirazi called for setting up a faculty of the Islamic arts in Qom. Ayatollah Sane'i called for respecting the writers and the artists nationwide. He said that the men of letters should never be disrespected. The ayatollah called for promoting tourism and protecting the cultural heritage of the nation. Ayatollah Mousavi Ardebili said that the scholars in theological centers and students in universities should employ a shared language for their scientific and cultural purposes. Chairman of the Assembly of Experts Ayatollah Ali Meshkini appreciated President Seyed Mohammad Khatami's contribution to Qoranic teachings and said that the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance has taken effective steps in this respect. Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
  He said that the holy Qom has a unique status as an internationally acknowledged center for Islamic studies. Masjed-Jame'i said that 40,000 students are studying at the theological centers of Qom and there are 14 higher education centers and 240 schools for research studies in the province as well as 80 publications and tens of specialized libraries. Ayatollah Makarem Shirazi called for setting up a faculty of the Islamic arts in Qom. Ayatollah Sane'i called for respecting the writers and the artists nationwide. He said that the men of letters should never be disrespected. The ayatollah called for promoting tourism and protecting the cultural heritage of the nation. Ayatollah Mousavi Ardebili said that the scholars in theological centers and students in universities should employ a shared language for their scientific and cultural purposes. Chairman of the Assembly of Experts Ayatollah Ali Meshkini appreciated President Seyed Mohammad Khatami's contribution to Qoranic teachings and said that the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance has taken effective steps in this respect. Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
  Masjed-Jame'i said that 40,000 students are studying at the theological centers of Qom and there are 14 higher education centers and 240 schools for research studies in the province as well as 80 publications and tens of specialized libraries. Ayatollah Makarem Shirazi called for setting up a faculty of the Islamic arts in Qom. Ayatollah Sane'i called for respecting the writers and the artists nationwide. He said that the men of letters should never be disrespected. The ayatollah called for promoting tourism and protecting the cultural heritage of the nation. Ayatollah Mousavi Ardebili said that the scholars in theological centers and students in universities should employ a shared language for their scientific and cultural purposes. Chairman of the Assembly of Experts Ayatollah Ali Meshkini appreciated President Seyed Mohammad Khatami's contribution to Qoranic teachings and said that the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance has taken effective steps in this respect. Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
  Ayatollah Makarem Shirazi called for setting up a faculty of the Islamic arts in Qom. Ayatollah Sane'i called for respecting the writers and the artists nationwide. He said that the men of letters should never be disrespected. The ayatollah called for promoting tourism and protecting the cultural heritage of the nation. Ayatollah Mousavi Ardebili said that the scholars in theological centers and students in universities should employ a shared language for their scientific and cultural purposes. Chairman of the Assembly of Experts Ayatollah Ali Meshkini appreciated President Seyed Mohammad Khatami's contribution to Qoranic teachings and said that the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance has taken effective steps in this respect. Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
  Ayatollah Sane'i called for respecting the writers and the artists nationwide. He said that the men of letters should never be disrespected. The ayatollah called for promoting tourism and protecting the cultural heritage of the nation. Ayatollah Mousavi Ardebili said that the scholars in theological centers and students in universities should employ a shared language for their scientific and cultural purposes. Chairman of the Assembly of Experts Ayatollah Ali Meshkini appreciated President Seyed Mohammad Khatami's contribution to Qoranic teachings and said that the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance has taken effective steps in this respect. Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
  He said that the men of letters should never be disrespected. The ayatollah called for promoting tourism and protecting the cultural heritage of the nation. Ayatollah Mousavi Ardebili said that the scholars in theological centers and students in universities should employ a shared language for their scientific and cultural purposes. Chairman of the Assembly of Experts Ayatollah Ali Meshkini appreciated President Seyed Mohammad Khatami's contribution to Qoranic teachings and said that the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance has taken effective steps in this respect. Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
  Ayatollah Mousavi Ardebili said that the scholars in theological centers and students in universities should employ a shared language for their scientific and cultural purposes. Chairman of the Assembly of Experts Ayatollah Ali Meshkini appreciated President Seyed Mohammad Khatami's contribution to Qoranic teachings and said that the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance has taken effective steps in this respect. Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
  Chairman of the Assembly of Experts Ayatollah Ali Meshkini appreciated President Seyed Mohammad Khatami's contribution to Qoranic teachings and said that the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance has taken effective steps in this respect. Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
  Ayatollah Meshkini also called for adopting encouraging measures to involve the youth in the cultural and artistic activities.
 
 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.