Aref during the meeting expressed hope that the good and strong relations between Tehran and Kuala Lumpur would serve as a model for ties among not only the Islamic, but also for all countries. The Iranian vice president meanwhile stressed, " potential capacities in both countries should be fully exploited, and tourism, for instance, should be taken advantage of as a quite appropriate ground for rather boosting bilateral ties.", IRNA reported. Aref also expressed hope that the two countries' ties in economic, industrial, and cultural fields would be boosted to an extent to match the excellent political ties between Tehran and Kuala Lumpur. He said, "The two countries' efforts aimed at boosting bilateral ties would eventually benefit the whole Islamic world." The first vice president added, "It would be appropriate for Iran and Malaysia to take more effective steps aimed at solving the acute problems with which the Islamic world is unfortunately entangled today." He also referred to Malaysia's significant position as the future head of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), expressing hope that under the umbrella of that country's wise leadership, the OIC would in near future be witness to the Islamic world's more effective, real, and deserved role in the Islamic world, and global policies. Datuk Haaj Sheikh Fadriz, too, during the meeting announced Malaysia's strong political will to expand comprehensive ties with Iran. The Malaysian Culture, Arts, and Tourism minister meanwhile hoped that during his country's rotating OIC presidency, the Islamic countries' stands would move toward proximity, aimed at strengthening the OIC and the Islamic world. He finally announced his country's full readiness and will to offer technical and engineering assistance to the Islamic Republic of Iran in various fields, agreeing with Aref on the point that tourism is one of the excellent fields for boosting bilateral ties.
                  The Iranian vice president meanwhile stressed, " potential capacities in both countries should be fully exploited, and tourism, for instance, should be taken advantage of as a quite appropriate ground for rather boosting bilateral ties.", IRNA reported. Aref also expressed hope that the two countries' ties in economic, industrial, and cultural fields would be boosted to an extent to match the excellent political ties between Tehran and Kuala Lumpur. He said, "The two countries' efforts aimed at boosting bilateral ties would eventually benefit the whole Islamic world." The first vice president added, "It would be appropriate for Iran and Malaysia to take more effective steps aimed at solving the acute problems with which the Islamic world is unfortunately entangled today." He also referred to Malaysia's significant position as the future head of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), expressing hope that under the umbrella of that country's wise leadership, the OIC would in near future be witness to the Islamic world's more effective, real, and deserved role in the Islamic world, and global policies. Datuk Haaj Sheikh Fadriz, too, during the meeting announced Malaysia's strong political will to expand comprehensive ties with Iran. The Malaysian Culture, Arts, and Tourism minister meanwhile hoped that during his country's rotating OIC presidency, the Islamic countries' stands would move toward proximity, aimed at strengthening the OIC and the Islamic world. He finally announced his country's full readiness and will to offer technical and engineering assistance to the Islamic Republic of Iran in various fields, agreeing with Aref on the point that tourism is one of the excellent fields for boosting bilateral ties.
                  Aref also expressed hope that the two countries' ties in economic, industrial, and cultural fields would be boosted to an extent to match the excellent political ties between Tehran and Kuala Lumpur. He said, "The two countries' efforts aimed at boosting bilateral ties would eventually benefit the whole Islamic world." The first vice president added, "It would be appropriate for Iran and Malaysia to take more effective steps aimed at solving the acute problems with which the Islamic world is unfortunately entangled today." He also referred to Malaysia's significant position as the future head of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), expressing hope that under the umbrella of that country's wise leadership, the OIC would in near future be witness to the Islamic world's more effective, real, and deserved role in the Islamic world, and global policies. Datuk Haaj Sheikh Fadriz, too, during the meeting announced Malaysia's strong political will to expand comprehensive ties with Iran. The Malaysian Culture, Arts, and Tourism minister meanwhile hoped that during his country's rotating OIC presidency, the Islamic countries' stands would move toward proximity, aimed at strengthening the OIC and the Islamic world. He finally announced his country's full readiness and will to offer technical and engineering assistance to the Islamic Republic of Iran in various fields, agreeing with Aref on the point that tourism is one of the excellent fields for boosting bilateral ties.
                  He also referred to Malaysia's significant position as the future head of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), expressing hope that under the umbrella of that country's wise leadership, the OIC would in near future be witness to the Islamic world's more effective, real, and deserved role in the Islamic world, and global policies. Datuk Haaj Sheikh Fadriz, too, during the meeting announced Malaysia's strong political will to expand comprehensive ties with Iran. The Malaysian Culture, Arts, and Tourism minister meanwhile hoped that during his country's rotating OIC presidency, the Islamic countries' stands would move toward proximity, aimed at strengthening the OIC and the Islamic world. He finally announced his country's full readiness and will to offer technical and engineering assistance to the Islamic Republic of Iran in various fields, agreeing with Aref on the point that tourism is one of the excellent fields for boosting bilateral ties.
                  Datuk Haaj Sheikh Fadriz, too, during the meeting announced Malaysia's strong political will to expand comprehensive ties with Iran. The Malaysian Culture, Arts, and Tourism minister meanwhile hoped that during his country's rotating OIC presidency, the Islamic countries' stands would move toward proximity, aimed at strengthening the OIC and the Islamic world. He finally announced his country's full readiness and will to offer technical and engineering assistance to the Islamic Republic of Iran in various fields, agreeing with Aref on the point that tourism is one of the excellent fields for boosting bilateral ties.
                  The Malaysian Culture, Arts, and Tourism minister meanwhile hoped that during his country's rotating OIC presidency, the Islamic countries' stands would move toward proximity, aimed at strengthening the OIC and the Islamic world. He finally announced his country's full readiness and will to offer technical and engineering assistance to the Islamic Republic of Iran in various fields, agreeing with Aref on the point that tourism is one of the excellent fields for boosting bilateral ties.
                  He finally announced his country's full readiness and will to offer technical and engineering assistance to the Islamic Republic of Iran in various fields, agreeing with Aref on the point that tourism is one of the excellent fields for boosting bilateral ties.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.