Sarkisyan in a meeting with the Iran's Supreme National Security Council (SNSC) Hojjatoleslam Hassan Rouhani stressed stability and security on the borders of Iran and Armenia. He added that economic relations between Tehran and Yerevan in energy and transportation sectors will promote consolidation of security in Armenia and the region. Rouhani for his part called close ties between Tehran and Yerevan as a necessity. He said no negative point can be found in history of relations between Iranian and Armenian nations. Strategic cooperation between Iran and Armenia in the field of economy is fundamental as is mutual cooperation in energy so as to promote the economy of the entire region, he said. Rouhani said security cooperation between Iran and Armenia is an important base for bilateral ties and Iran is ready to increase mutual cooperation. Also, Hojjatoleslam Rouhani declared that friendly relations between Iran and Armenia is not against a third country and Iran aims for stability, peace and security in the region. Rouhani told Armenian Foreign Minister Vartan Oskanyan that Iran is ready to play an active and constructive role in the settlement of the Karabakh dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Oskanyan recalled the failed mission of the Minsk Group in the case of Karabakh and called on Iran to play more significant role in regional issues.
                  He added that economic relations between Tehran and Yerevan in energy and transportation sectors will promote consolidation of security in Armenia and the region. Rouhani for his part called close ties between Tehran and Yerevan as a necessity. He said no negative point can be found in history of relations between Iranian and Armenian nations. Strategic cooperation between Iran and Armenia in the field of economy is fundamental as is mutual cooperation in energy so as to promote the economy of the entire region, he said. Rouhani said security cooperation between Iran and Armenia is an important base for bilateral ties and Iran is ready to increase mutual cooperation. Also, Hojjatoleslam Rouhani declared that friendly relations between Iran and Armenia is not against a third country and Iran aims for stability, peace and security in the region. Rouhani told Armenian Foreign Minister Vartan Oskanyan that Iran is ready to play an active and constructive role in the settlement of the Karabakh dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Oskanyan recalled the failed mission of the Minsk Group in the case of Karabakh and called on Iran to play more significant role in regional issues.
                  Rouhani for his part called close ties between Tehran and Yerevan as a necessity. He said no negative point can be found in history of relations between Iranian and Armenian nations. Strategic cooperation between Iran and Armenia in the field of economy is fundamental as is mutual cooperation in energy so as to promote the economy of the entire region, he said. Rouhani said security cooperation between Iran and Armenia is an important base for bilateral ties and Iran is ready to increase mutual cooperation. Also, Hojjatoleslam Rouhani declared that friendly relations between Iran and Armenia is not against a third country and Iran aims for stability, peace and security in the region. Rouhani told Armenian Foreign Minister Vartan Oskanyan that Iran is ready to play an active and constructive role in the settlement of the Karabakh dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Oskanyan recalled the failed mission of the Minsk Group in the case of Karabakh and called on Iran to play more significant role in regional issues.
                  He said no negative point can be found in history of relations between Iranian and Armenian nations. Strategic cooperation between Iran and Armenia in the field of economy is fundamental as is mutual cooperation in energy so as to promote the economy of the entire region, he said. Rouhani said security cooperation between Iran and Armenia is an important base for bilateral ties and Iran is ready to increase mutual cooperation. Also, Hojjatoleslam Rouhani declared that friendly relations between Iran and Armenia is not against a third country and Iran aims for stability, peace and security in the region. Rouhani told Armenian Foreign Minister Vartan Oskanyan that Iran is ready to play an active and constructive role in the settlement of the Karabakh dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Oskanyan recalled the failed mission of the Minsk Group in the case of Karabakh and called on Iran to play more significant role in regional issues.
                  Strategic cooperation between Iran and Armenia in the field of economy is fundamental as is mutual cooperation in energy so as to promote the economy of the entire region, he said. Rouhani said security cooperation between Iran and Armenia is an important base for bilateral ties and Iran is ready to increase mutual cooperation. Also, Hojjatoleslam Rouhani declared that friendly relations between Iran and Armenia is not against a third country and Iran aims for stability, peace and security in the region. Rouhani told Armenian Foreign Minister Vartan Oskanyan that Iran is ready to play an active and constructive role in the settlement of the Karabakh dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Oskanyan recalled the failed mission of the Minsk Group in the case of Karabakh and called on Iran to play more significant role in regional issues.
                  Rouhani said security cooperation between Iran and Armenia is an important base for bilateral ties and Iran is ready to increase mutual cooperation. Also, Hojjatoleslam Rouhani declared that friendly relations between Iran and Armenia is not against a third country and Iran aims for stability, peace and security in the region. Rouhani told Armenian Foreign Minister Vartan Oskanyan that Iran is ready to play an active and constructive role in the settlement of the Karabakh dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Oskanyan recalled the failed mission of the Minsk Group in the case of Karabakh and called on Iran to play more significant role in regional issues.
                  Also, Hojjatoleslam Rouhani declared that friendly relations between Iran and Armenia is not against a third country and Iran aims for stability, peace and security in the region. Rouhani told Armenian Foreign Minister Vartan Oskanyan that Iran is ready to play an active and constructive role in the settlement of the Karabakh dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Oskanyan recalled the failed mission of the Minsk Group in the case of Karabakh and called on Iran to play more significant role in regional issues.
                  Rouhani told Armenian Foreign Minister Vartan Oskanyan that Iran is ready to play an active and constructive role in the settlement of the Karabakh dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Oskanyan recalled the failed mission of the Minsk Group in the case of Karabakh and called on Iran to play more significant role in regional issues.
                  Oskanyan recalled the failed mission of the Minsk Group in the case of Karabakh and called on Iran to play more significant role in regional issues.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.