TEHRAN- Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei, the Leader of the Islamic Revolution, has asserted that Iran's struggle is not with a bunch of rioters who have caused anarchy in the country, rather "the major fight is with the global hegemony." Addressing a group of Basij volunteer members in the capital Tehran on Saturday, the Leader stressed the “Basiji culture” is one of humble, industrious volunteers.  It is a culture of “fearless combatants” with a feeling of bravery, a sense of helping humanity, and a sense of serving the nation, he pointed out.  This culture entails making sacrifices for the sake of others, the Leader noted. “Being a Basij member implies embracing the fact that you will be persecuted in order to save the oppressed. You witnessed how the Basij were persecuted while protecting the Iranian people from the persecution of a gang of rioters who were either uninformed, misinformed, or mercenary,” Ayatollah Khamenei noted.  “A group of people claiming to be politically knowledgeable, but whose analyses in newspapers and virtual space really sadden one, state that in order to end these riots, you should solve your problems with America,” the Leader remarked.  The Leader went on to say, “Praise God, there are millions of Basiji soldiers who have registered, as well as millions more who have not. In several Muslim nations, there are millions of Basijis. All of these Basijis have the same moral principles.” The latest unrest, according to Ayatollah Khamenei, is a result of Western pressure on Iran to give up its rights in the negotiations, especially those with the U.S., which have stalled due to Washington's lack of commitment. Ayatollah Khamenei also praised Imam Khomeini, the late founder of the Islamic Revolution, for one of his greatest initiatives in which he characterized the Basij as a "school of passion and spirituality." The Leader underlined that the nation has the potential to train Basiji troops and that the Basij have the ability to propel the nation ahead dramatically. “Basij must appear in all settings and sectors. It is a body to serve people without any expectations, not a military force per se,” the Leader pointed out, adding, “Our eminent nuclear experts were members of the force in fact, and Basiji troops have been successful on the scientific front.” Members of the Basij force have fought vandals, lost their lives, and suffered injuries during the most recent foreign-sponsored riots, Ayatollah Khamenei stressed, and they have sacrificed themselves for the benefit of the people. The Leader of the Islamic Revolution highlighted that opponents are attempting to manipulate minds and sway the public opinion by disseminating fake news, urging state authorities to keep a close check on current events. Given the geopolitical position of West Asia, and Iran in particular, American authorities had intended to harm the surrounding countries of the Islamic Republic, as they had admitted in 2006, Ayatollah Khamenei pointed out. “The most significant nation in the region is Iran,” Ayatollah Khamenei remarked, adding, “The Islamic Revolution of 1979 turned the tide against colonial practices and created a wall against the intrusion of haughty countries. The regional peoples' hearts and minds were won over by our revolution.” The Leader added, “How did Iran react to the Western plot? Iran's Islamic Republic was never brought up in conversation regarding North Africa. We have never wanted to enter and never have. However, the U.S. policy was unsuccessful while Iran's strategy was effective in Iraq, Syria, and Lebanon.” The Leader also stated that Lebanon, Libya, Sudan, and Somalia have occasionally been attacked due to their pro-Iran attitudes, and that the U.S. attempted to eliminate the Syrian government because it is an ally of Iran. “From the Westerners’ point of view, Iran had strategic depth in six countries. They had to be controlled by the United States and the imperialism before Iran could be dealt with. The governments of these six countries (Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Libya, Sudan and Somalia) had to fall,” Ayatollah Khamenei noted. “An opposing tactic is to catch you off guard. It has several methods for achieving this. One of these strategies is to start acting in a way that causes a lot of noise in order to draw attention to that area before beginning the primary goal it had in mind.” He added, “The failure of U.S. policies in these 3 nations was caused by Iran's presence. They attempted to take over Iraq but were unsuccessful. They attempted to overthrow the Syrian government but were unsuccessful. In Lebanon, they worked to crush the Hezbollah and Amal groups. It wasn't successful; they failed.” “To reduce Iran's strategic importance and harm it, the Americans spent billions of dollars and countless hours. But the immense, potent might of the Islamic Republic prevented this conspiracy from succeeding,” the Leader pointed out.  The Leader also noted that because of the region's abundant oil resources, Western colonial powers have their sights set on West Asia.  He also pointed to decades-long disputes between Iran and the U.S., saying, “Negotiation will not solve our problems with America. Only one thing would solve our problem with America and that is paying ransom to America, but not just one ransom, they are demanding permanent ransom.”  The Leader further emphasized that although Washington has occasionally had negotiations with Tehran, it has continued to impose sanctions on the Islamic Republic. He reiterated that the United States has invested enormous sums of money in a scheme to hurt Iran, adding whatever future agreements Washington and its partners in Europe desire to reach with Iran are designed to deprive the Islamic Republic of its defensive military prowess. ‘National voice’ Elsewhere in his remarks, the Leader said, “We are even instructed to pay attention to the national voice. During the demonstrations on November 4 on National Day against the Global Arrogance then, didn't you hear the resounding voice of the country? The voice of the Iranian people is being projected through the funeral processions of the martyrs. In Karaj, Isfahan, and Shiraz, a large number of Iranians organized rallies and attended funerals.”  The Leader also referred to the misuse of the World Cup by arrogant countries to deflect attention of the people in the world to orchestrate plots (exactly like the last periods), Ayatollah Khamenei stressed “be vigilant and watchful”. He added, “As I talked about the World Cup, I need to say that yesterday (Friday) the National Football Team stirred joy in the country. May God make them thrilled.” The Leader also said, “When the World Cup is taking place, all eyes are on it. The opponent typically takes advantage of this lax moment to act. It's crucial for authorities to concentrate on both domestic and international issues, especially those in East Asia, the Caucasus, and West Asia.” All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.