During the meeting, the Spanish minister lauded Iran's significant position in the region given its historical and deep-rooted civilization, and expressed his country's readiness to expand cultural and scientific ties with Iran. He expressed hope that Tehran-Madrid bilateral ties would receive a great boost after he visits Iran in the earliest possible time. Pique said his planned visit would be a response to the visit last year to Spain of Iranian Minister of Science, Technology and Science Mostafa Moein. Ahani, for his part, said that various MOUs have been signed between universities of Iran and Spain which in different fields which, he said, are indications of a desire by both sides to promote their academic ties. He also called on the two sides to make use of their extensive scientific and research capabilities. Iran and Spain signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to launch joint research projects here in February. The MOU was signed by Moein and the Head of Spain's Supreme National Research Institute, Ralf Tarach. The Tehran-Madrid MOU on research cooperation is the first document of its kind signed between the Islamic Republic and an EU member which paved the way for Iranian researchers to go to Spain this year to undertake scientific studies and to work with Spanish scientists in Iranian academic centers.
                  He expressed hope that Tehran-Madrid bilateral ties would receive a great boost after he visits Iran in the earliest possible time. Pique said his planned visit would be a response to the visit last year to Spain of Iranian Minister of Science, Technology and Science Mostafa Moein. Ahani, for his part, said that various MOUs have been signed between universities of Iran and Spain which in different fields which, he said, are indications of a desire by both sides to promote their academic ties. He also called on the two sides to make use of their extensive scientific and research capabilities. Iran and Spain signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to launch joint research projects here in February. The MOU was signed by Moein and the Head of Spain's Supreme National Research Institute, Ralf Tarach. The Tehran-Madrid MOU on research cooperation is the first document of its kind signed between the Islamic Republic and an EU member which paved the way for Iranian researchers to go to Spain this year to undertake scientific studies and to work with Spanish scientists in Iranian academic centers.
                  Pique said his planned visit would be a response to the visit last year to Spain of Iranian Minister of Science, Technology and Science Mostafa Moein. Ahani, for his part, said that various MOUs have been signed between universities of Iran and Spain which in different fields which, he said, are indications of a desire by both sides to promote their academic ties. He also called on the two sides to make use of their extensive scientific and research capabilities. Iran and Spain signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to launch joint research projects here in February. The MOU was signed by Moein and the Head of Spain's Supreme National Research Institute, Ralf Tarach. The Tehran-Madrid MOU on research cooperation is the first document of its kind signed between the Islamic Republic and an EU member which paved the way for Iranian researchers to go to Spain this year to undertake scientific studies and to work with Spanish scientists in Iranian academic centers.
                  Ahani, for his part, said that various MOUs have been signed between universities of Iran and Spain which in different fields which, he said, are indications of a desire by both sides to promote their academic ties. He also called on the two sides to make use of their extensive scientific and research capabilities. Iran and Spain signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to launch joint research projects here in February. The MOU was signed by Moein and the Head of Spain's Supreme National Research Institute, Ralf Tarach. The Tehran-Madrid MOU on research cooperation is the first document of its kind signed between the Islamic Republic and an EU member which paved the way for Iranian researchers to go to Spain this year to undertake scientific studies and to work with Spanish scientists in Iranian academic centers.
                  He also called on the two sides to make use of their extensive scientific and research capabilities. Iran and Spain signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to launch joint research projects here in February. The MOU was signed by Moein and the Head of Spain's Supreme National Research Institute, Ralf Tarach. The Tehran-Madrid MOU on research cooperation is the first document of its kind signed between the Islamic Republic and an EU member which paved the way for Iranian researchers to go to Spain this year to undertake scientific studies and to work with Spanish scientists in Iranian academic centers.
                  Iran and Spain signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to launch joint research projects here in February. The MOU was signed by Moein and the Head of Spain's Supreme National Research Institute, Ralf Tarach. The Tehran-Madrid MOU on research cooperation is the first document of its kind signed between the Islamic Republic and an EU member which paved the way for Iranian researchers to go to Spain this year to undertake scientific studies and to work with Spanish scientists in Iranian academic centers.
                  The MOU was signed by Moein and the Head of Spain's Supreme National Research Institute, Ralf Tarach. The Tehran-Madrid MOU on research cooperation is the first document of its kind signed between the Islamic Republic and an EU member which paved the way for Iranian researchers to go to Spain this year to undertake scientific studies and to work with Spanish scientists in Iranian academic centers.
                  The Tehran-Madrid MOU on research cooperation is the first document of its kind signed between the Islamic Republic and an EU member which paved the way for Iranian researchers to go to Spain this year to undertake scientific studies and to work with Spanish scientists in Iranian academic centers.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.