Davudi said in a meeting with Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyah here that Muslims and all free and independent people in the world support Palestinian government -- due to its right stances-- and Palestinians' unprecedented resistance against Zionist usurpers and their allies. He said that defending Palestine means safeguarding Islam, adding that enemies of freedom and humanity are doomed to failure and lofty aspirations of Palestine would be materialized thanks to resistance of young Palestinians. Referring to all-out support of Iranian nation and government for the Palestinian nation's resistance, Davudi announced Iran's readiness to put its valuable achievements and experiences in the political and urban development sectors at the disposal of Palestinians. Haniyah for his part touched on the sanctions imposed on the Palestinian government by the Zionist regime and its U.S.-led allies in a bid to gain diplomatic advantages and provide security arms for the artificial regime of Israel. He said that popular Palestinian government doesn't recognize the occupiers' legitimacy and regards resistance of Palestinian nation against Zionists as their natural right. He called recent eight-month tyrannical sanctions against the Palestinian nation and government "vain" and said the Palestinians would continue defense and resistance until the main aspiration of Palestine, i.e. liberation of Holy Qods, is met. In conclusion, Palestinian prime minister thanked Supreme Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei and the Iranian government and nation for supporting Palestinians.
                  He said that defending Palestine means safeguarding Islam, adding that enemies of freedom and humanity are doomed to failure and lofty aspirations of Palestine would be materialized thanks to resistance of young Palestinians. Referring to all-out support of Iranian nation and government for the Palestinian nation's resistance, Davudi announced Iran's readiness to put its valuable achievements and experiences in the political and urban development sectors at the disposal of Palestinians. Haniyah for his part touched on the sanctions imposed on the Palestinian government by the Zionist regime and its U.S.-led allies in a bid to gain diplomatic advantages and provide security arms for the artificial regime of Israel. He said that popular Palestinian government doesn't recognize the occupiers' legitimacy and regards resistance of Palestinian nation against Zionists as their natural right. He called recent eight-month tyrannical sanctions against the Palestinian nation and government "vain" and said the Palestinians would continue defense and resistance until the main aspiration of Palestine, i.e. liberation of Holy Qods, is met. In conclusion, Palestinian prime minister thanked Supreme Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei and the Iranian government and nation for supporting Palestinians.
                  Referring to all-out support of Iranian nation and government for the Palestinian nation's resistance, Davudi announced Iran's readiness to put its valuable achievements and experiences in the political and urban development sectors at the disposal of Palestinians. Haniyah for his part touched on the sanctions imposed on the Palestinian government by the Zionist regime and its U.S.-led allies in a bid to gain diplomatic advantages and provide security arms for the artificial regime of Israel. He said that popular Palestinian government doesn't recognize the occupiers' legitimacy and regards resistance of Palestinian nation against Zionists as their natural right. He called recent eight-month tyrannical sanctions against the Palestinian nation and government "vain" and said the Palestinians would continue defense and resistance until the main aspiration of Palestine, i.e. liberation of Holy Qods, is met. In conclusion, Palestinian prime minister thanked Supreme Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei and the Iranian government and nation for supporting Palestinians.
                  Haniyah for his part touched on the sanctions imposed on the Palestinian government by the Zionist regime and its U.S.-led allies in a bid to gain diplomatic advantages and provide security arms for the artificial regime of Israel. He said that popular Palestinian government doesn't recognize the occupiers' legitimacy and regards resistance of Palestinian nation against Zionists as their natural right. He called recent eight-month tyrannical sanctions against the Palestinian nation and government "vain" and said the Palestinians would continue defense and resistance until the main aspiration of Palestine, i.e. liberation of Holy Qods, is met. In conclusion, Palestinian prime minister thanked Supreme Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei and the Iranian government and nation for supporting Palestinians.
                  He said that popular Palestinian government doesn't recognize the occupiers' legitimacy and regards resistance of Palestinian nation against Zionists as their natural right. He called recent eight-month tyrannical sanctions against the Palestinian nation and government "vain" and said the Palestinians would continue defense and resistance until the main aspiration of Palestine, i.e. liberation of Holy Qods, is met. In conclusion, Palestinian prime minister thanked Supreme Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei and the Iranian government and nation for supporting Palestinians.
                  He called recent eight-month tyrannical sanctions against the Palestinian nation and government "vain" and said the Palestinians would continue defense and resistance until the main aspiration of Palestine, i.e. liberation of Holy Qods, is met. In conclusion, Palestinian prime minister thanked Supreme Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei and the Iranian government and nation for supporting Palestinians.
                  In conclusion, Palestinian prime minister thanked Supreme Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei and the Iranian government and nation for supporting Palestinians.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.