The men were killed late Thursday in a battle in Ghazni, one of a handful of provinces in the south of Afghanistan that has experienced some of the heaviest insurgency-linked violence since the ouster of the Taliban in 2001. "Eight Taliban were killed and two police were also killed in the fighting on Thursday night," Ghazni governor Sher Alam Ibrahimi said. He said one militant was captured during the battle while nine policemen were also wounded. Around 100 other people, nearly 90 of them Taliban fighters, have been killed in major battles in southern Afghanistan since Wednesday. A Canadian soldier was also killed in one of the clashes, a battle that erupted in Kandahar province on Wednesday when coalition forces were assisting Afghan security forces who had gone to the area on information that Taliban were massing. Thirteen police were also killed. There appeared to be a lull in the violence early Friday as security forces across the violence-hit south conducted clean-up operations to round up militants. Dozens of government reinforcements were sent Friday to search for rebels in Musa Qala in Helmand province, scene of the deadliest battles on Wednesday in which about 40 militants and 16 policemen were killed, provincial spokesman Moheedin Khan said.
                  "Eight Taliban were killed and two police were also killed in the fighting on Thursday night," Ghazni governor Sher Alam Ibrahimi said. He said one militant was captured during the battle while nine policemen were also wounded. Around 100 other people, nearly 90 of them Taliban fighters, have been killed in major battles in southern Afghanistan since Wednesday. A Canadian soldier was also killed in one of the clashes, a battle that erupted in Kandahar province on Wednesday when coalition forces were assisting Afghan security forces who had gone to the area on information that Taliban were massing. Thirteen police were also killed. There appeared to be a lull in the violence early Friday as security forces across the violence-hit south conducted clean-up operations to round up militants. Dozens of government reinforcements were sent Friday to search for rebels in Musa Qala in Helmand province, scene of the deadliest battles on Wednesday in which about 40 militants and 16 policemen were killed, provincial spokesman Moheedin Khan said.
                  He said one militant was captured during the battle while nine policemen were also wounded. Around 100 other people, nearly 90 of them Taliban fighters, have been killed in major battles in southern Afghanistan since Wednesday. A Canadian soldier was also killed in one of the clashes, a battle that erupted in Kandahar province on Wednesday when coalition forces were assisting Afghan security forces who had gone to the area on information that Taliban were massing. Thirteen police were also killed. There appeared to be a lull in the violence early Friday as security forces across the violence-hit south conducted clean-up operations to round up militants. Dozens of government reinforcements were sent Friday to search for rebels in Musa Qala in Helmand province, scene of the deadliest battles on Wednesday in which about 40 militants and 16 policemen were killed, provincial spokesman Moheedin Khan said.
                  Around 100 other people, nearly 90 of them Taliban fighters, have been killed in major battles in southern Afghanistan since Wednesday. A Canadian soldier was also killed in one of the clashes, a battle that erupted in Kandahar province on Wednesday when coalition forces were assisting Afghan security forces who had gone to the area on information that Taliban were massing. Thirteen police were also killed. There appeared to be a lull in the violence early Friday as security forces across the violence-hit south conducted clean-up operations to round up militants. Dozens of government reinforcements were sent Friday to search for rebels in Musa Qala in Helmand province, scene of the deadliest battles on Wednesday in which about 40 militants and 16 policemen were killed, provincial spokesman Moheedin Khan said.
                  A Canadian soldier was also killed in one of the clashes, a battle that erupted in Kandahar province on Wednesday when coalition forces were assisting Afghan security forces who had gone to the area on information that Taliban were massing. Thirteen police were also killed. There appeared to be a lull in the violence early Friday as security forces across the violence-hit south conducted clean-up operations to round up militants. Dozens of government reinforcements were sent Friday to search for rebels in Musa Qala in Helmand province, scene of the deadliest battles on Wednesday in which about 40 militants and 16 policemen were killed, provincial spokesman Moheedin Khan said.
                  There appeared to be a lull in the violence early Friday as security forces across the violence-hit south conducted clean-up operations to round up militants. Dozens of government reinforcements were sent Friday to search for rebels in Musa Qala in Helmand province, scene of the deadliest battles on Wednesday in which about 40 militants and 16 policemen were killed, provincial spokesman Moheedin Khan said.
                  Dozens of government reinforcements were sent Friday to search for rebels in Musa Qala in Helmand province, scene of the deadliest battles on Wednesday in which about 40 militants and 16 policemen were killed, provincial spokesman Moheedin Khan said.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.