Recent local elections in Catalonia have once again exacerbated the political crisis in the region. n 2006, when some residents of Catalonia called for the autonomy of this state in a broad referendum, some separatist groups became active in the region.  This activity was very limited because many of Catalans believed that, despite being autonomous, there was no place for a claim for independence from Spain. However, over time, we witnessed the intensification of the economic crisis in Catalonia, on the one hand, and the increase in the activities of the separatists on the other. However, many experts, after the 2006 referendum, predicted that the desire for independence of the inhabitants of Catalonia would once again become a major hardship for the Madrid government. Perhaps it would have been wise for the right-wing and socialist parties in Spain to have better policies towards Catalonia. They should have taken the necessary precautions to prevent the realization of the current situation.  OUSTED Catalan President Carles Puigdemont has declared victory in the region’s elections this evening as early counts suggest pro-independence parties are set to win a majority. As express reported, The result will put Catalonia on a collision course with Madrid, which stripped the region of its autonomy in October.Pro-independence parties Together for Catalonia, Republican Left of Catalonia and Popular Unity are set to win 70 seats between them, giving them a large majority in the 135 seat Parliament.
Addressing voters from Belgium, where Mr Puigdemont is in a self-imposed exile, he declared that the election meant that the “Catalan republic” had won.An aide to Mr Puigdemont sent a Whatsapp message to journalists as news of the results broke saying: “As you see, we are the comeback kids.” The former Catalan leader had vowed to return to his home country if the separatist parties won a majority.So far more than 95 per cent of the votes have been counted.The pro-unity Citizens party is the largest party with 36 seats, however, they have conceded defeat.The result means the future of Spain and Catalonia is once again uncertain after the Spanish Prime Minister, Mariano Rajoy, said prior to the ballot that he would consider re-imposing direct rule it if a new government again pursues independence “illegally”. Mr Rajoy called the Parliamentary election after Mr Puigdemont’s Government won a referendum on Catalan independence in October.The result prompted a unilateral declaration of independence from the northern region of Spain.However, the Madrid Government said the poll was unconstitutional, called the declaration null and void and arrested Catalan politicians who supported independence.In his address Mr Puigdemont said: “Rajoy's method has failed to stop the independence movement". "Despite the difficulties we have faced, the absolute majority of independence continues.” He added: “The Catalan people have won the right to be listened to.” Following the result pro-independence voters have taken to the streets to celebrate.Judith Ros, a 33-year-old woman from Barcelona who supports a separate state for Catalan, said that the election result meant there was “no way back”. Speaking to Express.co.uk, she said: “The result is a reaffirmation for the pro-independence bloc.” She added: “The Spanish state’s formula has definitely not worked out as planed.” Meanwhile, Ruben Gonzalez, 21, who is from Tarragona but lives in London, has said that the attitude from Mardid needs to change.Speaking to Express.co.uk, he said: “The Catalan Government has tried many times to have a conversation with the Spanish and all the answers received have been ‘there’s nothing to talk about’ and violence.  “Clearly this needs to change, the Catalan Government will try to have the dialogue with the Spanish again.” He added: “This time they have to accept the results and at least discuss.” Also  Telegraph reported  that Catalonia’s ousted president, Carles Puigdemont, hailed a triumphant comeback for independence parties in hotly disputed elections called by the Spanish government, a victory that opens up a dramatic new chapter in the secession crisis.  Appearing among supporters in Brussels to cries of “President!”, Mr Puigdemont declared the “Catalan Republic” victorious in the face of the direct rule imposed by the government of Mariano Rajoy.  “The Spanish state has been defeated, Rajoy and his allies have lost,” he said, insisting the result was one "no one can dispute". He demanded the “legitimate” government now be fully restored and the prosecutions of independence leaders dropped. Mr Puigdemont, himself facing detention in Spain on charges of sedition and rebellion, also issued a call to the European Union. Europe had to “take note” that the “receipt of Rajoy does not work,” he said, calling for a political solution to the impasse.  As telegraph reported,  The secessionist parties defied consistent poll predictions of a hung parliament to secure an absolute majority of 70 seats out of 135, and 47.5 percent of the popular vote. Meanwhile the unionist bloc took 57 seats, with 43.4 percent of the vote. “As you can see, we are the comeback kids,” Joan Maria Pique, campaign manager for ousted president Carles Puigdemont’s platform, Junts Per Catalunya, said from Brussels. But it is the unionist centre-right party Ciudadanos, led in Catalonia by Ines Arrimadas, that is now the largest single force in the parliament after making impressive gains. Appearing on stage in Barcelona to cries of "Viva Espana!", she claimed the result showed the "majority is in favour of union with Spain," insisting she would continue to fight against the independence project. Xavier Garcia Albiol, the candidate for Mr Rajoy’s PP, which plummeted from 11 seats to just 3, lamented what he said was a “very bad result”, both for his party and “the future of Catalonia". “Some might be celebrating for five minutes but I think Catalonia is going to come out losing," he said.  A record 82 percent of Catalonia's 5.5 million voters came out to cast ballots in the snap poll, aiming to restore an autonomous government almost two months after Madrid imposed direct rule under Article 155 in response to the unilateral independence declaration. However, local elections in Catalonia showed that the conflict between the residents of this region and the central government continues. The conflict is worrying not only Spanish officials but also European officials. 
  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.