In any future combat, Israel’s strategic target will be the life of Hezbollah leader, according to the Israeli Major General Yaakov Barak. Audaciously, Barak has threatened of assassinating the Secretary-General of Hezbollah Lebanese resistance movement Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah. He said, “If we manage to kill Nasrallah in the next war, I would see that as reaching a decisive victory,” Ha’aretz reported.   Israeli War of Threats Early in September, the Zionist enemy has conducted its biggest military drill in almost two decades on the Lebanese border to simulate “the next confrontation with Hezbollah.” Similarly, in November, the chief Israeli military spokesperson Brigadier General Ronen Manelis, threatened that Hezbollah would be a target of assassination. “There won’t be a clear victory picture in the next war, though it’s clear that Nasrallah is a target,” Manelis stated. These statements are stated amid a slew of Israeli continuous blatant threats against the Lebanese sovereignty. Manelis claimed, “It is clear that if he dies, it will influence the military campaign.” He admitted that the “Israel Defence Forces” (IDF) is conducting psychological and media warfare against Hezbollah and there is a “transition from traditional media consumption to social media…. Just in the past few weeks, we’ve taken a great many actions that caused consternation on the other side.” Manelis added that the Israeli army “makes daily efforts, both overt and covert, in an effort to push back the next war.” Further, Yaakov Barak said that “the next war will not be a war of several days, but it won’t last several months either.”  He maintained that any future war is expected to be very different from the previous ones and that Israeli ground forces are “ready and prepared to be sent into the Lebanese territory more quickly, widely and deeply than before.”   Sayyed Nasrallah’s Charismatic Character Hezbollah leader, Sayyed Nasrallah was elected the Secretary General of Hezbollah movement, after Israeli helicopter gunships assassinated his predecessor, Sayyed Abbas al-Musawi, in 1992. Sayyed Nasrallah has long been the subject of ire among the Israeli for his lively speeches, in which he mocks their threats. His eminence cuts a charismatic figure and is regarded as an “expert in psychological warfare.” In 25 May 2000, the Israeli enemy was defeated and the occupation of the Lebanese South ended under Hezbollah fire. In a historical victory speech, Sayyed Nasrallah from the town of Bint Jbeil maintained, “Israel is as weak as a spider web.” He asserted that the Israeli enemy lacks the wherewithal to sustain its casualties in its confrontation against the resistance. The Israeli desired goal of assassinating Sayyed Nasrallah is not any new as it was one of the most important goals of the 2006 aggression. Conversely, the enemy’s intelligence and military efforts have repetitively failed to do so. The enemies greatly believe that Sayyed Nasrallah is one of the most fundamentals of Hezbollah's strength and therefore required to be removed from the scene.   The Future War Undoubtedly, the Zionist enemy is certain that the victory in any future war would be achieved through a combination of high-tech savvy and blitzkrieg-like attacks on the Lebanese civilian infrastructure. Israel stresses on both the land invasion scenarios, as well as Sayyed Nasrallah’s assassination. Hezbollah resistance, Lebanon’s de facto military power, has inflicted heavy losses on the aggressive entity, which waged a hostile war in July of 2006 after it launched a destructive campaign through air-based firepower and a haphazard invasion. The war lasted over 33 days, claiming the lives of more than 1,100 Lebanese and displacing about a million. Eventually, on 14 August 2006, Sayyed Nasrallah emerged from the conflict victorious and declared the “Divine Victory.” Indeed, any future combat would be thoroughly different because the enemy assumes that Hezbollah has tunnels in Lebanon not necessarily to infiltrate the occupied lands but to store weapons and shelter its fighters. Another hypothesis is that the coming war could erupt on both the Syrian border and in Gaza in the south. For this reason, Israel is working on radar technology for light vehicles and possibly the troops themselves, as well as on technology to protect soldiers from mortar shells, drone attacks, based on the assumption that it would move more broadly and deeply into the Lebanese and Syrian territories.  Lebanon’s Firm Stances In the recent weeks, the inflammatory language has been escalating between Lebanon and the Zionist entity over Tel Aviv’s building of a border wall and its ongoing threats against Lebanon’s offshore oil and gas exploration projects in Eastern Mediterranean disputed waters. The resistance has vowed to defend Lebanon’s rights in oil and gas exploration against any new Israeli aggression. Likewise, General Joseph Aoun, Lebanese army chief Commander, ordered his soldiers on the Lebanese southern frontier to decisively respond to the Israeli threats and violations. After the Arab League accused Hezbollah of “supporting terrorism and extremist groups in Arab countries with advanced weapons and ballistic missiles,” Michel Aoun, the Lebanese President tweeted, “Lebanon was able to face the Israeli aggression since 1978 until the 2006 war. It was able to liberate its land. Israeli threats are still ongoing; the Lebanese have the right to fight and thwart it with all available means.” President Aoun also said that Lebanon is prepared to counter the whole threats, vowing that all available means would be used to deter any potential aggression by Israel.  The Saudis Conspiracy against Lebanon Recently, Lebanese officials have slammed the aggressive Saudi Arabia for seeking to provoke a political crisis in Lebanon thru pressuring Saad Hariri, the Prime Minister to either take a confrontational approach towards Hezbollah or step down. Moreover, Riyadh has appealed to Israel to launch a military onslaught against Lebanon in the name of fighting Hezbollah. Openly, the Saudis confirm that they are ready to spend billions of dollars to attain this objective. These stances have emerged amid widespread shameful news of Israel and the so-called “Saudi Arabia, custodian of Arabs and Muslims” to officially announce their long-time secret ties. On his Twitter account Khalid bin Ahmed Al Khalifa, the Bahraini Foreign Minister, has also urged the assassination of Sayyed Nasrallah, calling it a “national and religious duty.” According to the Tweet, Sayyed Nasrallah is a “terrorist and declares war on his nation.” The antagonistic statement followed Sayyed Nasrallah's latest speech in which he praised the Bahraini peaceful revolution and the injustice it suffers, while the monarchy's government receives limitless support to blackout the revolution and tarnish its image before the international public opinion. Hezbollah maintains close ties Iran and Syrian President Bashar Assad in their fight against the Takfiri Saudi and Western-backed insurgents. Accordingly, Israel has been driven mad on the resistance accumulation of real-world battlefield experience. The recent developments between the Zionist enemy and Lebanon have warned that they can be drawn at any time into extreme scenarios. Repeatedly, Sayyed Nasrallah has warned Tel Aviv against going for further aggression. He has vowed that the resistance and the Lebanese army would heroically respond, emphasising that the enemies “do not have a correct picture about what is awaiting them if they go to the idiocy of this war.” Sayyed Nasrallah stressed that the Zionist enemy does not have a correct assessment of where this war will lead if they ignite it, and thus does not have a clear strategic view of the Hezbollah’s formidable competences. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.