According the Public Relations Office of the Majlis, consensus to this effect came at a meeting between Seyed Hadi Khamenei, a MP from Tehran and head of the Iran-Yemen parliamentary friendship group and Yemeni Prime Minister, Abd al-Qadir Bajammal, in Sanaa, capital of Yemen. lauding the Yemeni president, government and nation for their principled stances and support vis-a-vis the Palestinian intifada, he said he was satisfied with the upward trend in Tehran-Sanaa relations. Pointing to their countries' centuries-old relations, he asked for further expansion of mutual cooperation, especially in the economic and trade sectors, as well as in the regional and international arenas. Bajammal, for his part, stressed the great importance his country attaches to the promotion of economic cooperation between Muslim states, and also asked for greater investment and participation by Iranian businessmen in various projects under way in his country. In a related development, the Yemeni minister of foreign affairs expressed his appreciation for Iran's continuing support for the Palestinian intifada, adding that peace can only be achieved in the region (Middle East) if Syrian and Lebanese territories occupied by the Zionist regime are freed and a Palestinian independent authority is created. Likewise, in another separate meeting between the Iranian delegation and the mayor of the Yemeni capital, the two sides asked for further expansion of mutual cooperation in the area of city planning through an exchange of experiences and experts.
                  lauding the Yemeni president, government and nation for their principled stances and support vis-a-vis the Palestinian intifada, he said he was satisfied with the upward trend in Tehran-Sanaa relations. Pointing to their countries' centuries-old relations, he asked for further expansion of mutual cooperation, especially in the economic and trade sectors, as well as in the regional and international arenas. Bajammal, for his part, stressed the great importance his country attaches to the promotion of economic cooperation between Muslim states, and also asked for greater investment and participation by Iranian businessmen in various projects under way in his country. In a related development, the Yemeni minister of foreign affairs expressed his appreciation for Iran's continuing support for the Palestinian intifada, adding that peace can only be achieved in the region (Middle East) if Syrian and Lebanese territories occupied by the Zionist regime are freed and a Palestinian independent authority is created. Likewise, in another separate meeting between the Iranian delegation and the mayor of the Yemeni capital, the two sides asked for further expansion of mutual cooperation in the area of city planning through an exchange of experiences and experts.
                  Pointing to their countries' centuries-old relations, he asked for further expansion of mutual cooperation, especially in the economic and trade sectors, as well as in the regional and international arenas. Bajammal, for his part, stressed the great importance his country attaches to the promotion of economic cooperation between Muslim states, and also asked for greater investment and participation by Iranian businessmen in various projects under way in his country. In a related development, the Yemeni minister of foreign affairs expressed his appreciation for Iran's continuing support for the Palestinian intifada, adding that peace can only be achieved in the region (Middle East) if Syrian and Lebanese territories occupied by the Zionist regime are freed and a Palestinian independent authority is created. Likewise, in another separate meeting between the Iranian delegation and the mayor of the Yemeni capital, the two sides asked for further expansion of mutual cooperation in the area of city planning through an exchange of experiences and experts.
                  Bajammal, for his part, stressed the great importance his country attaches to the promotion of economic cooperation between Muslim states, and also asked for greater investment and participation by Iranian businessmen in various projects under way in his country. In a related development, the Yemeni minister of foreign affairs expressed his appreciation for Iran's continuing support for the Palestinian intifada, adding that peace can only be achieved in the region (Middle East) if Syrian and Lebanese territories occupied by the Zionist regime are freed and a Palestinian independent authority is created. Likewise, in another separate meeting between the Iranian delegation and the mayor of the Yemeni capital, the two sides asked for further expansion of mutual cooperation in the area of city planning through an exchange of experiences and experts.
                  In a related development, the Yemeni minister of foreign affairs expressed his appreciation for Iran's continuing support for the Palestinian intifada, adding that peace can only be achieved in the region (Middle East) if Syrian and Lebanese territories occupied by the Zionist regime are freed and a Palestinian independent authority is created. Likewise, in another separate meeting between the Iranian delegation and the mayor of the Yemeni capital, the two sides asked for further expansion of mutual cooperation in the area of city planning through an exchange of experiences and experts.
                  Likewise, in another separate meeting between the Iranian delegation and the mayor of the Yemeni capital, the two sides asked for further expansion of mutual cooperation in the area of city planning through an exchange of experiences and experts.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.