Head of the headquarters in charge of holding the exhibition said that the fair is aimed to give an opportunity to those active in this field to display their capabilities. Seyyed Mostafa Seyyed-Mostafavi added that the exhibition will be held in cooperation with the Agricultural Jihad Ministry and nine national institutes active in the fields of livestock, poultry and relevant industries in an area of 10,000 square meters. He said that more than 200 domestic trade and manufacturing companies would participate in the exhibition. Production of livestock and poultry products in Iran has sharply increased in recent years, he said, noting that those active in the industry would extensively take part in the event. He announced that three million people are engaged in producing livestock products and there are 16,000 poultry farms with a total capacity of raising one billion chickens throughout the country. Producers of livestock and poultry products are now meeting the country's needs in this field, the official said, adding that they have a significant role in the country's gross domestic product (GDP), increasing value added and creating job opportunities. Turning to 200 trillion rials worth of investments and some 60 trillion rials worth of capital circulation in poultry industry, he added that the sector produces two million tons of chicken meat and eggs valued at $2.5 billion. He said that the industry saves the country more than $1.5 billion annually. Seyyed-Mostafavi suggested that the country should provide facilities to make utmost use of the sector's capacity in order to pave the way for Iranian producers to enter international markets.
                  Seyyed Mostafa Seyyed-Mostafavi added that the exhibition will be held in cooperation with the Agricultural Jihad Ministry and nine national institutes active in the fields of livestock, poultry and relevant industries in an area of 10,000 square meters. He said that more than 200 domestic trade and manufacturing companies would participate in the exhibition. Production of livestock and poultry products in Iran has sharply increased in recent years, he said, noting that those active in the industry would extensively take part in the event. He announced that three million people are engaged in producing livestock products and there are 16,000 poultry farms with a total capacity of raising one billion chickens throughout the country. Producers of livestock and poultry products are now meeting the country's needs in this field, the official said, adding that they have a significant role in the country's gross domestic product (GDP), increasing value added and creating job opportunities. Turning to 200 trillion rials worth of investments and some 60 trillion rials worth of capital circulation in poultry industry, he added that the sector produces two million tons of chicken meat and eggs valued at $2.5 billion. He said that the industry saves the country more than $1.5 billion annually. Seyyed-Mostafavi suggested that the country should provide facilities to make utmost use of the sector's capacity in order to pave the way for Iranian producers to enter international markets.
                  He said that more than 200 domestic trade and manufacturing companies would participate in the exhibition. Production of livestock and poultry products in Iran has sharply increased in recent years, he said, noting that those active in the industry would extensively take part in the event. He announced that three million people are engaged in producing livestock products and there are 16,000 poultry farms with a total capacity of raising one billion chickens throughout the country. Producers of livestock and poultry products are now meeting the country's needs in this field, the official said, adding that they have a significant role in the country's gross domestic product (GDP), increasing value added and creating job opportunities. Turning to 200 trillion rials worth of investments and some 60 trillion rials worth of capital circulation in poultry industry, he added that the sector produces two million tons of chicken meat and eggs valued at $2.5 billion. He said that the industry saves the country more than $1.5 billion annually. Seyyed-Mostafavi suggested that the country should provide facilities to make utmost use of the sector's capacity in order to pave the way for Iranian producers to enter international markets.
                  Production of livestock and poultry products in Iran has sharply increased in recent years, he said, noting that those active in the industry would extensively take part in the event. He announced that three million people are engaged in producing livestock products and there are 16,000 poultry farms with a total capacity of raising one billion chickens throughout the country. Producers of livestock and poultry products are now meeting the country's needs in this field, the official said, adding that they have a significant role in the country's gross domestic product (GDP), increasing value added and creating job opportunities. Turning to 200 trillion rials worth of investments and some 60 trillion rials worth of capital circulation in poultry industry, he added that the sector produces two million tons of chicken meat and eggs valued at $2.5 billion. He said that the industry saves the country more than $1.5 billion annually. Seyyed-Mostafavi suggested that the country should provide facilities to make utmost use of the sector's capacity in order to pave the way for Iranian producers to enter international markets.
                  He announced that three million people are engaged in producing livestock products and there are 16,000 poultry farms with a total capacity of raising one billion chickens throughout the country. Producers of livestock and poultry products are now meeting the country's needs in this field, the official said, adding that they have a significant role in the country's gross domestic product (GDP), increasing value added and creating job opportunities. Turning to 200 trillion rials worth of investments and some 60 trillion rials worth of capital circulation in poultry industry, he added that the sector produces two million tons of chicken meat and eggs valued at $2.5 billion. He said that the industry saves the country more than $1.5 billion annually. Seyyed-Mostafavi suggested that the country should provide facilities to make utmost use of the sector's capacity in order to pave the way for Iranian producers to enter international markets.
                  Producers of livestock and poultry products are now meeting the country's needs in this field, the official said, adding that they have a significant role in the country's gross domestic product (GDP), increasing value added and creating job opportunities. Turning to 200 trillion rials worth of investments and some 60 trillion rials worth of capital circulation in poultry industry, he added that the sector produces two million tons of chicken meat and eggs valued at $2.5 billion. He said that the industry saves the country more than $1.5 billion annually. Seyyed-Mostafavi suggested that the country should provide facilities to make utmost use of the sector's capacity in order to pave the way for Iranian producers to enter international markets.
                  Turning to 200 trillion rials worth of investments and some 60 trillion rials worth of capital circulation in poultry industry, he added that the sector produces two million tons of chicken meat and eggs valued at $2.5 billion. He said that the industry saves the country more than $1.5 billion annually. Seyyed-Mostafavi suggested that the country should provide facilities to make utmost use of the sector's capacity in order to pave the way for Iranian producers to enter international markets.
                  He said that the industry saves the country more than $1.5 billion annually. Seyyed-Mostafavi suggested that the country should provide facilities to make utmost use of the sector's capacity in order to pave the way for Iranian producers to enter international markets.
                  Seyyed-Mostafavi suggested that the country should provide facilities to make utmost use of the sector's capacity in order to pave the way for Iranian producers to enter international markets.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.