TEHRAN- The spokesperson for Iran's foreign ministry reaffirmed on Monday that the Islamic Republic's dedication to the negotiations to resurrect the 2015 nuclear agreement, but Tehran is not prepared to engage in negotiations under pressure or threat. American authorities themselves are aware that Iran does not negotiate under coercion, Nasser Kanaani told a weekly press conference.  Iran's position on the negotiations, according to Kanaani, is "fully clear," and Tehran is dedicated to diplomacy to seek a settlement. Talks to revive the nuclear agreement, officially known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) started in April 20121. However, the talks have stalemated as Washington refuses to give guarantees that it will not quit the agreement again or not punish companies or countries that invest in Iran if Washington again reneges on its commitments. The spokesperson urged the European nations not to submit to Washington and its imposed conditions, noting that achieving a deal would serve the interests of Iran, the U.S., and the European participants to the accord. “Iran agreed to the JCPOA and complied with its duties, but the United States broke the agreement. The E3 (thee European states of Britain, France and Germany) also didn't follow through on their promises and didn't make up for Washington's unlawful and unilateral departure from the JCPOA,” he lamented.  The official said that Iran remained committed to the JCPOA for a full year despite the fact that United States left the agreement in 2018. He stated that Iran is still interested in finalizing JCPOA revival negotiations with the U.S., European countries, Russia, and China. The remaining parties to the pact are interested in reviving the agreement, he added. However, Kanaani advised European JCPOA participants to quit caving in to U.S. pressure. “Attemtps to remove Iran from UN Women Commission politically motivated” The foreign ministry spokesman also denounced the unlawful attempt by some Western states to have Iran removed from the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women as a kind of political pressure on Tehran. "With regard to the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, I must clarify that Iran, as a member of the United Nations, became a member of the commission in a transparent and legal election with the highest number of votes from ECOSOC countries," Kanaani also stated.  The spokesman stated, “By exerting pressure on Islamic states, the United States and certain European nations are attempting to obstruct Iran's membership in the commission in a move that is wholly political in nature and is illegitimate.” He also said, “The action goes against what countries have voted for in international bodies. In other words, it is a method of challenging the UN's autonomous countries.” Kanaani added, “The member countries have freely voted for the membership of the Islamic Republic. Suppose the Westerners succeed in expelling Iran from the commission by applying pressure and using political tools. In that case, they will practically be the founders of this heresy.” “States who have historically perpetrated numerous crimes against governments and countries and are currently utilizing human rights strategies against independent countries are members of the Security Council and the United Nations Human Rights Council.” Iran to resist illegitimate move by U.S. and European states “Iran will utilize its capacities to resist this illegitimate approach if the United States and other European countries succeed in ousting Iran from the Commission on the Status of Women. This will undermine the effectiveness of an international organization,” he pointed out. “Regional states believe ties with Israel are treasonous” The foreign ministry official also responded to the visit of the Israeli president to Manama, saying people in Bahrain and other neighboring countries have made it plain that they oppose relationship with the Israeli regime and consider it as treachery. The people of Bahrain held protests during the visit of the Israeli president to Manama. Kanaani said the U.S. is exerting pressure on regional countries to normalize ties with Tel Aviv. Certain nations' normalization with Israel is seen as a betrayal of Palestine. “The people of Bahrain have also stated their opinions that they are against the normalization of relations during the visit of the president of the Zionist regime to Bahrain,” he said. Kanaani pointed to the regime's acknowledgment that it is treated as a pariah in the Qatar World Cup. “It proves that the normalization of ties with certain countries in the area does not automatically imply the nations agree with it, and there has been no change in the level of hostility towards the regime. It has even intensified.” Kanaani also denied a U.S. charge that Iran was behind a ship seized in regional seas that was carrying weapons to Yemen, calling it a rehash of unfounded allegations against the Islamic Republic. “Ties between Tehran, Riyadh will benefit region”   Regarding discussions between Iran and Saudi Arabia mediated by Iraq, Kanaani also said, “We believe that improving relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia is in interests of both sides and the region.” “The Islamic Republic's stance on this is fairly clear”, he continued, adding, “Resuming diplomatic ties between the two nations within the framework of shared and regional interests can be based on political conversation and negotiation to settle differences.” He underscored, “We held five rounds of negotiations in Baghdad with the cooperation of the Iraqi government. We must wait to see what the opposite side responds.” “Deployment of Iraqi forces in joint borders” The spokesman also Iraq is resolved to deploy armed personnel in the border regions with Iran in the Iraqi Kurdistan region. Following the recent turmoil in Iran, the militant separatist organizations based in Iraqi Kurdistan upped their antics against Iran. As a result, the IRGC has been carrying out missile and drone assaults on separatist groups in the semi-autonomous region of Iraq since late September. These groups have carried out terrorist actions in Iran's border regions. “Fortunately, we got positive news these days that the Iraqi government is determined to deploy central government personnel on the two nations' shared borders, particularly along the borders with the Kurdistan region of Iraq,” said Kanaani. He expressed the hope that by taking the necessary action, Iraq could fulfill the Islamic Republic's demand for durable and full security along the common borders. “Measures against Saudi-sponsored TV”  He also stated that Iran intends to file a lawsuit against the London-based Iran International television channel for its role in inciting riots in Iran, adding that the United Kingdom, which serves as the TV station's host, as well as those who provide financial support to the network, will also be impacted. In other parts of his remarks, Kanaani said that the Saudi-funded Iran International contributes to the spread of disorder in Iran. He also chastised foreign groups pursuing political objectives from exploiting internal developments in Iran. “Iran-China partnership” The official also indicated that Iranian and Chinese firms have found it challenging to increase their collaboration as part of a 25-year partnership agreement struck between the two nations nearly two years ago due to U.S. sanctions on Iran. However, he said that despite the restrictions, relations between Iran and China had been strengthened. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.