The explosion tore through a district courts complex as a court was in session, killing a judge, several lawyers and court officials. No-one has claimed the attack, which injured dozens of people, police said. Quetta is the capital of Balochistan province, where for several years nationalist militants have been fighting for greater autonomy. A severed head, thought to be the bomber's, was found in the aftermath of the attack, police said. "The bomber entered the courtroom, stood leaning against a wall and detonated," Balochistan police chief Tariq Khosa told AFP news agency. Several of the injured are in a serious condition with severe burns. Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said the attack was against the Muslim faith and against humanity. Pakistan's security forces are already on high alert, following three suicide bomb attacks in the region in recent weeks, says the BBC's Rumella Dasgupta. Despite the government's denials, there are regular reports of Taleban insurgents operating in the province, which borders Afghanistan, our correspondent says. Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                  No-one has claimed the attack, which injured dozens of people, police said. Quetta is the capital of Balochistan province, where for several years nationalist militants have been fighting for greater autonomy. A severed head, thought to be the bomber's, was found in the aftermath of the attack, police said. "The bomber entered the courtroom, stood leaning against a wall and detonated," Balochistan police chief Tariq Khosa told AFP news agency. Several of the injured are in a serious condition with severe burns. Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said the attack was against the Muslim faith and against humanity. Pakistan's security forces are already on high alert, following three suicide bomb attacks in the region in recent weeks, says the BBC's Rumella Dasgupta. Despite the government's denials, there are regular reports of Taleban insurgents operating in the province, which borders Afghanistan, our correspondent says. Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                  Quetta is the capital of Balochistan province, where for several years nationalist militants have been fighting for greater autonomy. A severed head, thought to be the bomber's, was found in the aftermath of the attack, police said. "The bomber entered the courtroom, stood leaning against a wall and detonated," Balochistan police chief Tariq Khosa told AFP news agency. Several of the injured are in a serious condition with severe burns. Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said the attack was against the Muslim faith and against humanity. Pakistan's security forces are already on high alert, following three suicide bomb attacks in the region in recent weeks, says the BBC's Rumella Dasgupta. Despite the government's denials, there are regular reports of Taleban insurgents operating in the province, which borders Afghanistan, our correspondent says. Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                  A severed head, thought to be the bomber's, was found in the aftermath of the attack, police said. "The bomber entered the courtroom, stood leaning against a wall and detonated," Balochistan police chief Tariq Khosa told AFP news agency. Several of the injured are in a serious condition with severe burns. Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said the attack was against the Muslim faith and against humanity. Pakistan's security forces are already on high alert, following three suicide bomb attacks in the region in recent weeks, says the BBC's Rumella Dasgupta. Despite the government's denials, there are regular reports of Taleban insurgents operating in the province, which borders Afghanistan, our correspondent says. Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                  "The bomber entered the courtroom, stood leaning against a wall and detonated," Balochistan police chief Tariq Khosa told AFP news agency. Several of the injured are in a serious condition with severe burns. Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said the attack was against the Muslim faith and against humanity. Pakistan's security forces are already on high alert, following three suicide bomb attacks in the region in recent weeks, says the BBC's Rumella Dasgupta. Despite the government's denials, there are regular reports of Taleban insurgents operating in the province, which borders Afghanistan, our correspondent says. Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                  Several of the injured are in a serious condition with severe burns. Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said the attack was against the Muslim faith and against humanity. Pakistan's security forces are already on high alert, following three suicide bomb attacks in the region in recent weeks, says the BBC's Rumella Dasgupta. Despite the government's denials, there are regular reports of Taleban insurgents operating in the province, which borders Afghanistan, our correspondent says. Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                  Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said the attack was against the Muslim faith and against humanity. Pakistan's security forces are already on high alert, following three suicide bomb attacks in the region in recent weeks, says the BBC's Rumella Dasgupta. Despite the government's denials, there are regular reports of Taleban insurgents operating in the province, which borders Afghanistan, our correspondent says. Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                  Pakistan's security forces are already on high alert, following three suicide bomb attacks in the region in recent weeks, says the BBC's Rumella Dasgupta. Despite the government's denials, there are regular reports of Taleban insurgents operating in the province, which borders Afghanistan, our correspondent says. Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                  Despite the government's denials, there are regular reports of Taleban insurgents operating in the province, which borders Afghanistan, our correspondent says. Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                  Pakistan is under pressure from its Western allies who want to see the country doing more to control the highly volatile situation along its western borders.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.