He is carrying a written message from Emirati President Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan al-Nahyan for President Mohammad Khatami on ways of developing bilateral relations in the interests of the two countries. Sheikh Hamdan, who is Sheikh Zayed's son, is scheduled to meet with Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi. The two will discuss joint measures for the establishment of security and peace in the region as well as the world. Sheikh Hamdan visited Tehran in July, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver Sheikh Zayed's congratulatory message on President Khatami's reelection.  thr 023 iran-uae-visit     /pol/     emirati state minister heads for tehran abu dhabi, may 26, irna -- emirati minister of state for foreign affairs sheikh hamdan bin zayed al-nahyan left here sunday for tehran on a two-day visit to discuss ways of promoting friendly ties and neighborly coexistence between the two islamic countries as well as regional and international developments. he is carrying a written message from emirati president sheikh zayed bin sultan al-nahyan for president mohammad khatami on ways of developing bilateral relations in the interests of the two countries. sheikh hamdan, who is sheikh zayed's son, is scheduled to meet with iranian foreign minister kamal kharrazi. the two will discuss joint measures for the establishment of security and peace in the region as well as the world. sheikh hamdan visited tehran in july, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver sheikh zayed's congratulatory message on president khatami's re-election.
                  Sheikh Hamdan, who is Sheikh Zayed's son, is scheduled to meet with Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi. The two will discuss joint measures for the establishment of security and peace in the region as well as the world. Sheikh Hamdan visited Tehran in July, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver Sheikh Zayed's congratulatory message on President Khatami's reelection.  thr 023 iran-uae-visit     /pol/     emirati state minister heads for tehran abu dhabi, may 26, irna -- emirati minister of state for foreign affairs sheikh hamdan bin zayed al-nahyan left here sunday for tehran on a two-day visit to discuss ways of promoting friendly ties and neighborly coexistence between the two islamic countries as well as regional and international developments. he is carrying a written message from emirati president sheikh zayed bin sultan al-nahyan for president mohammad khatami on ways of developing bilateral relations in the interests of the two countries. sheikh hamdan, who is sheikh zayed's son, is scheduled to meet with iranian foreign minister kamal kharrazi. the two will discuss joint measures for the establishment of security and peace in the region as well as the world. sheikh hamdan visited tehran in july, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver sheikh zayed's congratulatory message on president khatami's re-election.
                  Sheikh Hamdan visited Tehran in July, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver Sheikh Zayed's congratulatory message on President Khatami's reelection.  thr 023 iran-uae-visit     /pol/     emirati state minister heads for tehran abu dhabi, may 26, irna -- emirati minister of state for foreign affairs sheikh hamdan bin zayed al-nahyan left here sunday for tehran on a two-day visit to discuss ways of promoting friendly ties and neighborly coexistence between the two islamic countries as well as regional and international developments. he is carrying a written message from emirati president sheikh zayed bin sultan al-nahyan for president mohammad khatami on ways of developing bilateral relations in the interests of the two countries. sheikh hamdan, who is sheikh zayed's son, is scheduled to meet with iranian foreign minister kamal kharrazi. the two will discuss joint measures for the establishment of security and peace in the region as well as the world. sheikh hamdan visited tehran in july, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver sheikh zayed's congratulatory message on president khatami's re-election.
                   thr 023 iran-uae-visit     /pol/     emirati state minister heads for tehran abu dhabi, may 26, irna -- emirati minister of state for foreign affairs sheikh hamdan bin zayed al-nahyan left here sunday for tehran on a two-day visit to discuss ways of promoting friendly ties and neighborly coexistence between the two islamic countries as well as regional and international developments. he is carrying a written message from emirati president sheikh zayed bin sultan al-nahyan for president mohammad khatami on ways of developing bilateral relations in the interests of the two countries. sheikh hamdan, who is sheikh zayed's son, is scheduled to meet with iranian foreign minister kamal kharrazi. the two will discuss joint measures for the establishment of security and peace in the region as well as the world. sheikh hamdan visited tehran in july, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver sheikh zayed's congratulatory message on president khatami's re-election.
                  he is carrying a written message from emirati president sheikh zayed bin sultan al-nahyan for president mohammad khatami on ways of developing bilateral relations in the interests of the two countries. sheikh hamdan, who is sheikh zayed's son, is scheduled to meet with iranian foreign minister kamal kharrazi. the two will discuss joint measures for the establishment of security and peace in the region as well as the world. sheikh hamdan visited tehran in july, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver sheikh zayed's congratulatory message on president khatami's re-election.
                  sheikh hamdan, who is sheikh zayed's son, is scheduled to meet with iranian foreign minister kamal kharrazi. the two will discuss joint measures for the establishment of security and peace in the region as well as the world. sheikh hamdan visited tehran in july, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver sheikh zayed's congratulatory message on president khatami's re-election.
                  sheikh hamdan visited tehran in july, 2001 at the head of a 20-strong delegation to deliver sheikh zayed's congratulatory message on president khatami's re-election.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.