TEHRAN _ When the Yemeni ballistic missile was fired at Yamama Palace, lots of hidden issues about the coordination of the United States and Al Saud wasunfolded.  It was such that Donald Trump expressed his solidarity with Malik Salman after the rocket attack, in which, as some Yemeni sources have reported, he stressed on the need to push for more pressure on the army and popular committees In order to defeat them. This call has shown the contradictions in Trump's words over human and humanitarian issues even more than before. Today it's obvious for the Arab and Western public opinion that the Saudis are targeting the Yemeni people and killing them with American, British and French weapons. And the reason for their support for the Saudi Arabia in the United Nations and other international circles is that they're after selling arms to Riyadh. That's how Saudi money has overcome humanity and has led Western countries to close their eyes on the crimes that are being committed against Yemeni people. The Yemeni missile fired at Yamama Palace actually revealed many facts: that the Yemeni people, who are actually defending themselves against aggressors, face the support of the international community for Saudi Arabia. But the international community does not respond to the killings of women and children in Yemen and remains silent in the face of all these crimes. The crimes of the Saudi-led coalition occurs with the green light of the United States and of course, with its weapons. The Experts of Yemen affairs believe that the United State is after strategic and tactical goals in Yemen. Indeed, in addition to U.S. undeniable support for the Saudis in Yemen and monetization through the sale of weapons to the invaders, Washington is seeking to meet its hidden objectives in the region. This is due to the strategic and geopolitical importance of the Yemen and the Strait of Bab Al-Mandab. America isn't after peace or putting an end to war in Yemen. And that's because it sees the continuation of these conditions as an opportunity for its own military presence in the region. The geographic location of Yemen and its oil and gas resources have contributed to the continuation of US policy of war in this country for the sake of realization of its political and economic interests. The strengthening of Ansarullah power over the past three years under popular support is a major threat to the Zionist regime. Neither is this a good news for the Americans, because they see this as a threat to the Zionist regime's marine activities in the Red Sea and Bab Al-Mandab. This has led the United States and the Zionist regime to encourage their allies in the anti-Yemeni coalition to attack this country, lest the interests of the Zionist regime and the United States in one of the most important waterways in the world would be compromised. One of the reasons that have led the Zionists, the United States and their allies to seek control over Bab Al-Mandab is that they are concerned about the transit of their goods and energy from strait, as well as the maintenance of the stability and security of American bases in Africa. According to observers, the main cause of U.S. and Saudis concern over the power of Ansarullah in Yemen is the domination of Ansarullah over this essential waterway. Thus the United States, Britain, France and the Zionist regime's support for the Saudis should be sought in this issue. Another point that should be considered about Yemen and the United States is Washington's attempt to break down Yemen. The U.S. plan for Yemen is also part of its strategy in the Middle East, but it has given the separatist mission to the Saudis and the United Arab Emirates. As it was said, Yemen has a privileged position: In addition to having the Strait of Bab Al-Mandeb, which will bring Saudi oil to the world markets, commercial shipments pass through this strait to the Suez Canal and to the Mediterranean Sea, then Europe and the United State. Economically and according to available statistics, about five to six percent of the world's oil is flown every day from the Strait to the Suez Canal and from there to the rest of the world. According to U.S. Energy Information Administration, in 2013, the amount of oil that crossed the Strait every day was about 3.8 million barrels. That's equivalent to six percent of global oil trade. Every year, about 21,000 ships carrying various types of goods pass through Bab Al-Mandeb. Given the importance of Bab Al-Mandeb in the global trade and transportation of oil, Western countries have also been trying to control the Strait and its traffic. In pursuit of these goals, Washington started building military bases near Bab Al-Mandeb. An example is the Djibouti military base located in the western part of Bab al-Mandab. Meanwhile, the Emirati are aware of the effects of Yemen on their economy. Accordingly, Yemen's political, economic and military changes have a huge impact on the UAE. In fact, the transfer of European and American embassies from Sana'a to Aden is considered to be an early step towards the breakdown of Yemen. But according to some experts, the U.S. is after instability and spread of terrorism in the southern provinces, so that it can mention this instability in Yemen as an excuse for direct interference and military presence in the country.  This was the U.S. strategy in Iraq and Syria as well. But American authorities know that such direct interference can't last for a long time. That's because of the power of popular forces on the one hand, and on the other hand, the economic blow to the European countries due to the instability of Bab Al-Mandab is a very important issue. The United States is looking for an opportunity for direct military intervention in Yemen, and is trying to observe the military developments in Bab Al-Mandab to find this opportunity. But the Yemeni consciousness has not given this excuse to the United States so far. The U.S. attack on Ansarullah's radar sites under the pretext of attacking Mason and some other ships is in the same direction. The goal of the United States and its allies is to run a scenario aimed at dominating the Bab Al-Mandeb area. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.