Rajab 1, 1424 (August 29, 2003) is the birth anniversary of the 5th infallible Shia Imam named Mohammad (AS) son of Ali (AS), who was known as the dissector of knowledge. Therefore we take this golden opportunity to express our sincere best wishes and felicitations to all Shia Muslims on this happy occasion, raising our hands toward him and praying for the reappearance of his descendant Imam Mahdi (AS). Birth and Blessed Personality The months of Rajab, Sha’ban and Ramazan are the most distinguished months in the year. The Holy Prophet (S) said: "Rajab is a great month of Allah and no month can equal it in sanctity and merit. For any ummah (people) this month is for asking forgiveness from Allah because Rajab is the month of Allah, Sha’ban is my month, and Ramazan is the month of the people. The mercy of Allah descends on my people during this month. Hence every Muslim should repent of his sins and ask Allah for forgiveness, and he will surely be pardoned." In this blessed month, Imam Mohammad (AS), son of Imam Sajjad (AS), the fifth Imam, was born in Medina in 57 A.H. (678 C.E.). His mother Fatemeh was the daughter of Imam Hassan (AS) and the most pious lady of her time. Imam Baqer (AS) witnessed his grandfather Imam Hussein’s (AS) martyrdom when he was only 4 years old. His wisdom and insight made him renowned as Baqer-ul-uloum (dissector of knowledge). Learned scholars respected his great wisdom and superior intellect. Imam Baqer (AS) made use of the situation created by the power struggle between rival groups to preach to people and teach genuine Islamic laws and their correct interpretations. He left behind tens of thousands of authentic traditions for guidance which are read by seekers of truth. Imam Baqer (AS) preached Islam and revived the teaching of the knowledge of the Shia, a teaching which reached its peak during the time of his son Imam Sadeq (AS). Imam Baqer (AS) worked hard and chose agriculture as a means of earning his living. He lived for 57 years. After being poisoned, he passed away in 114 A.H. (735 C.E.) and was buried in the Baqi graveyard in Medina. Sayings of Imam Mohammad Baqer (AS) 1) And Supplication is the highest form of worship. (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 2) “There is nothing better and nearer to Allah (mighty and glorified be He) than that He is asked and sought for what is with Him. And the most hateful and detestable person for Allah is he who is arrogant in His worship and does not ask Him for what is with Him,” (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 3) Worthy is the person who refuses to regard his wealth as his worth. 4) A learned person whose knowledge benefits people is superior to 70,000 pious worshippers. 5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  In this blessed month, Imam Mohammad (AS), son of Imam Sajjad (AS), the fifth Imam, was born in Medina in 57 A.H. (678 C.E.). His mother Fatemeh was the daughter of Imam Hassan (AS) and the most pious lady of her time. Imam Baqer (AS) witnessed his grandfather Imam Hussein’s (AS) martyrdom when he was only 4 years old. His wisdom and insight made him renowned as Baqer-ul-uloum (dissector of knowledge). Learned scholars respected his great wisdom and superior intellect. Imam Baqer (AS) made use of the situation created by the power struggle between rival groups to preach to people and teach genuine Islamic laws and their correct interpretations. He left behind tens of thousands of authentic traditions for guidance which are read by seekers of truth. Imam Baqer (AS) preached Islam and revived the teaching of the knowledge of the Shia, a teaching which reached its peak during the time of his son Imam Sadeq (AS). Imam Baqer (AS) worked hard and chose agriculture as a means of earning his living. He lived for 57 years. After being poisoned, he passed away in 114 A.H. (735 C.E.) and was buried in the Baqi graveyard in Medina. Sayings of Imam Mohammad Baqer (AS) 1) And Supplication is the highest form of worship. (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 2) “There is nothing better and nearer to Allah (mighty and glorified be He) than that He is asked and sought for what is with Him. And the most hateful and detestable person for Allah is he who is arrogant in His worship and does not ask Him for what is with Him,” (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 3) Worthy is the person who refuses to regard his wealth as his worth. 4) A learned person whose knowledge benefits people is superior to 70,000 pious worshippers. 5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  Imam Baqer (AS) witnessed his grandfather Imam Hussein’s (AS) martyrdom when he was only 4 years old. His wisdom and insight made him renowned as Baqer-ul-uloum (dissector of knowledge). Learned scholars respected his great wisdom and superior intellect. Imam Baqer (AS) made use of the situation created by the power struggle between rival groups to preach to people and teach genuine Islamic laws and their correct interpretations. He left behind tens of thousands of authentic traditions for guidance which are read by seekers of truth. Imam Baqer (AS) preached Islam and revived the teaching of the knowledge of the Shia, a teaching which reached its peak during the time of his son Imam Sadeq (AS). Imam Baqer (AS) worked hard and chose agriculture as a means of earning his living. He lived for 57 years. After being poisoned, he passed away in 114 A.H. (735 C.E.) and was buried in the Baqi graveyard in Medina. Sayings of Imam Mohammad Baqer (AS) 1) And Supplication is the highest form of worship. (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 2) “There is nothing better and nearer to Allah (mighty and glorified be He) than that He is asked and sought for what is with Him. And the most hateful and detestable person for Allah is he who is arrogant in His worship and does not ask Him for what is with Him,” (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 3) Worthy is the person who refuses to regard his wealth as his worth. 4) A learned person whose knowledge benefits people is superior to 70,000 pious worshippers. 5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  His wisdom and insight made him renowned as Baqer-ul-uloum (dissector of knowledge). Learned scholars respected his great wisdom and superior intellect. Imam Baqer (AS) made use of the situation created by the power struggle between rival groups to preach to people and teach genuine Islamic laws and their correct interpretations. He left behind tens of thousands of authentic traditions for guidance which are read by seekers of truth. Imam Baqer (AS) preached Islam and revived the teaching of the knowledge of the Shia, a teaching which reached its peak during the time of his son Imam Sadeq (AS). Imam Baqer (AS) worked hard and chose agriculture as a means of earning his living. He lived for 57 years. After being poisoned, he passed away in 114 A.H. (735 C.E.) and was buried in the Baqi graveyard in Medina. Sayings of Imam Mohammad Baqer (AS) 1) And Supplication is the highest form of worship. (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 2) “There is nothing better and nearer to Allah (mighty and glorified be He) than that He is asked and sought for what is with Him. And the most hateful and detestable person for Allah is he who is arrogant in His worship and does not ask Him for what is with Him,” (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 3) Worthy is the person who refuses to regard his wealth as his worth. 4) A learned person whose knowledge benefits people is superior to 70,000 pious worshippers. 5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  Imam Baqer (AS) made use of the situation created by the power struggle between rival groups to preach to people and teach genuine Islamic laws and their correct interpretations. He left behind tens of thousands of authentic traditions for guidance which are read by seekers of truth. Imam Baqer (AS) preached Islam and revived the teaching of the knowledge of the Shia, a teaching which reached its peak during the time of his son Imam Sadeq (AS). Imam Baqer (AS) worked hard and chose agriculture as a means of earning his living. He lived for 57 years. After being poisoned, he passed away in 114 A.H. (735 C.E.) and was buried in the Baqi graveyard in Medina. Sayings of Imam Mohammad Baqer (AS) 1) And Supplication is the highest form of worship. (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 2) “There is nothing better and nearer to Allah (mighty and glorified be He) than that He is asked and sought for what is with Him. And the most hateful and detestable person for Allah is he who is arrogant in His worship and does not ask Him for what is with Him,” (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 3) Worthy is the person who refuses to regard his wealth as his worth. 4) A learned person whose knowledge benefits people is superior to 70,000 pious worshippers. 5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  Imam Baqer (AS) preached Islam and revived the teaching of the knowledge of the Shia, a teaching which reached its peak during the time of his son Imam Sadeq (AS). Imam Baqer (AS) worked hard and chose agriculture as a means of earning his living. He lived for 57 years. After being poisoned, he passed away in 114 A.H. (735 C.E.) and was buried in the Baqi graveyard in Medina. Sayings of Imam Mohammad Baqer (AS) 1) And Supplication is the highest form of worship. (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 2) “There is nothing better and nearer to Allah (mighty and glorified be He) than that He is asked and sought for what is with Him. And the most hateful and detestable person for Allah is he who is arrogant in His worship and does not ask Him for what is with Him,” (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 3) Worthy is the person who refuses to regard his wealth as his worth. 4) A learned person whose knowledge benefits people is superior to 70,000 pious worshippers. 5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  Imam Baqer (AS) worked hard and chose agriculture as a means of earning his living. He lived for 57 years. After being poisoned, he passed away in 114 A.H. (735 C.E.) and was buried in the Baqi graveyard in Medina. Sayings of Imam Mohammad Baqer (AS) 1) And Supplication is the highest form of worship. (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 2) “There is nothing better and nearer to Allah (mighty and glorified be He) than that He is asked and sought for what is with Him. And the most hateful and detestable person for Allah is he who is arrogant in His worship and does not ask Him for what is with Him,” (Usoul-e Kafi, volume 2, page 466) 3) Worthy is the person who refuses to regard his wealth as his worth. 4) A learned person whose knowledge benefits people is superior to 70,000 pious worshippers. 5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  3) Worthy is the person who refuses to regard his wealth as his worth. 4) A learned person whose knowledge benefits people is superior to 70,000 pious worshippers. 5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  4) A learned person whose knowledge benefits people is superior to 70,000 pious worshippers. 5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  5) Our followers (Shia) are only those who are pious, obedient to God, humble, kind-hearted, and trustworthy; who always remember God, keep fasts, perform prayers, and do good to their parents and neighbors; who fulfill the needs of the poor, the weak, the needy, and the orphans; who are well known for recitation of the Qoran, and who never distress people through abusive speech and speak only about the goodness of others. 6) A happy countenance and cheerful behavior toward others attract the love of people and closeness to God, and arrogance and self exaltation in interactions with others generate enmity and spiteful feelings and result in the withdrawal of the mercy of God.” Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                  Wishing all the best and a blessed Rajab for you.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.