The two exhibitions can be an exceptional opportunity for developing touring and tourism industry as well as hotel management. To fathom the main objective behind the fairs, the English daily TEHRAN TIMES has conducted an interview with the Managing Director of the Milad Management and Planning Center Shahram Sepasdar-Tehran, who is the executive manager of the mentioned fairs. This is the first time that we hold such specialized exhibitions, Sepasdar revealed expressing hope for achieving the goals which are: Materialization of the idea of dialogue among the civilizations initiated by President Mohammad Khatami through attracting the tourists; gaining the capital goods in the field of hotel equipment; modernizing the science of hotel management and equipment and joint ventures. Elaborating on holding the fairs, Sepasdar said that Milad Center had been authorized by Iran Touring and Tourism Organization (ITTO) and the Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance had also cooperated with the center. Then he added, "A great number of organizations have expressed their readiness for participation in the fairs. The hotel-management organizations, travel agencies, hotel equipment manufacturing companies and the state-run and private organizations may also take part in the exhibitions." The fairs will be held at the Permanent Ground for Tehran International Fairs at No. 31, Milad Hall. The deadline for registration is May 20, (Ordibehesht 30), and the interested applicants can contact through fax or telephone number (021) 2014287-9 to receive the application forms, Sepasdar concluded.
                  To fathom the main objective behind the fairs, the English daily TEHRAN TIMES has conducted an interview with the Managing Director of the Milad Management and Planning Center Shahram Sepasdar-Tehran, who is the executive manager of the mentioned fairs. This is the first time that we hold such specialized exhibitions, Sepasdar revealed expressing hope for achieving the goals which are: Materialization of the idea of dialogue among the civilizations initiated by President Mohammad Khatami through attracting the tourists; gaining the capital goods in the field of hotel equipment; modernizing the science of hotel management and equipment and joint ventures. Elaborating on holding the fairs, Sepasdar said that Milad Center had been authorized by Iran Touring and Tourism Organization (ITTO) and the Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance had also cooperated with the center. Then he added, "A great number of organizations have expressed their readiness for participation in the fairs. The hotel-management organizations, travel agencies, hotel equipment manufacturing companies and the state-run and private organizations may also take part in the exhibitions." The fairs will be held at the Permanent Ground for Tehran International Fairs at No. 31, Milad Hall. The deadline for registration is May 20, (Ordibehesht 30), and the interested applicants can contact through fax or telephone number (021) 2014287-9 to receive the application forms, Sepasdar concluded.
                  This is the first time that we hold such specialized exhibitions, Sepasdar revealed expressing hope for achieving the goals which are: Materialization of the idea of dialogue among the civilizations initiated by President Mohammad Khatami through attracting the tourists; gaining the capital goods in the field of hotel equipment; modernizing the science of hotel management and equipment and joint ventures. Elaborating on holding the fairs, Sepasdar said that Milad Center had been authorized by Iran Touring and Tourism Organization (ITTO) and the Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance had also cooperated with the center. Then he added, "A great number of organizations have expressed their readiness for participation in the fairs. The hotel-management organizations, travel agencies, hotel equipment manufacturing companies and the state-run and private organizations may also take part in the exhibitions." The fairs will be held at the Permanent Ground for Tehran International Fairs at No. 31, Milad Hall. The deadline for registration is May 20, (Ordibehesht 30), and the interested applicants can contact through fax or telephone number (021) 2014287-9 to receive the application forms, Sepasdar concluded.
                  Elaborating on holding the fairs, Sepasdar said that Milad Center had been authorized by Iran Touring and Tourism Organization (ITTO) and the Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance had also cooperated with the center. Then he added, "A great number of organizations have expressed their readiness for participation in the fairs. The hotel-management organizations, travel agencies, hotel equipment manufacturing companies and the state-run and private organizations may also take part in the exhibitions." The fairs will be held at the Permanent Ground for Tehran International Fairs at No. 31, Milad Hall. The deadline for registration is May 20, (Ordibehesht 30), and the interested applicants can contact through fax or telephone number (021) 2014287-9 to receive the application forms, Sepasdar concluded.
                  Then he added, "A great number of organizations have expressed their readiness for participation in the fairs. The hotel-management organizations, travel agencies, hotel equipment manufacturing companies and the state-run and private organizations may also take part in the exhibitions." The fairs will be held at the Permanent Ground for Tehran International Fairs at No. 31, Milad Hall. The deadline for registration is May 20, (Ordibehesht 30), and the interested applicants can contact through fax or telephone number (021) 2014287-9 to receive the application forms, Sepasdar concluded.
                  The fairs will be held at the Permanent Ground for Tehran International Fairs at No. 31, Milad Hall. The deadline for registration is May 20, (Ordibehesht 30), and the interested applicants can contact through fax or telephone number (021) 2014287-9 to receive the application forms, Sepasdar concluded.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.