TEHRAN - Robert David Steele, former CIA clandestine operations officer, tells the Tehran Times that U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson “is pursuing the foreign policy of Israel, not the foreign policy of the United States of America.”   
 Following is the text of the interview: Q: Rex Tillerson recently announced that the U.S. backs those groups who try for change the Iranian regime. Why has Trump’s government focused on the expired policy of “regime change in Iran”? A: Secretary Tillerson is pursuing the foreign policy of Israel, not the foreign policy of the United States of America. The U.S. Department of State is controlled today by a mix of Zionists, bankers, neoconservatives, and pedophiles. The U.S. Government at the highest levels does not do evidence-based decision-making, nor does it pursue the interests of the American public. Evidently President Donald Trump, after promising to forego elective wars and regime change, has been bribed to betray the best interests of the American people. As Donald Trump said during the campaign, our policies are "pay to play." The Saudis do the paying and the Zionists do the playing. Q: Regarding the relationship between Iran and its neighbors like Saudi Arabia, which kind of policy has to be adopted by the U.S. government on his aspect? New sanctions against Iran ‘represent the complete idiocy of the U.S. government’ A: My clandestine services colleague, Robert Baer, ends is excellent book, Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude, with a description of the U.S. Government lying like a whore on a bed, lusting for the Saudi wallet on the bureau.  Precisely. The U.S. Government has become the whore of Saudi Arabia and Israel, and I for one will no longer tolerate this mis-representation of the best interests of the American public. I single out John Brennan, former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, as a particular individual whore kneeling to the Saudi despots.  Brennan is still in charge of the dark side of CIA, much as Allen Dulles was after being fired by John F. Kennedy, and Brennan is using the "playbook" of Allen Dulles, up to and including a planned assassination, against our legitimately-elected President Donald Trump -- I recommend David Talbot's book, The Devil's Chessboard: Allen Dulles, the CIA, and the Rise of America's Secret Government for a clear understanding of how the secret intelligence services in the USA are now blackmailing our political leaders and controlling the American media narrative in detail. Q: Will the Senate’s new anti-Iran sanctions fulfill interests of the West? A: No. Everything the West is doing serves Saudi Arabia, Israel, and Wall Street, which desperately wants a war in the Middle East to both drive the price of oil up -- Goldman Sachs made some bad bets on oil futures -- and to secure the oil under the Golan Heights that belong to Syria.  Apart from being unenforceable, the sanctions represent the complete idiocy of the U.S. Government.  There is no grand strategy, no mature focus on all ten high-level threats to humanity among which proliferation is number eight, a complete collapse of intelligence (decision-support) and a total lack of integrity. I anticipate four Republican Senators, two Republican Governors, and perhaps the Vice President of the United States to be swept away in the next year by a pedophilia/child murder/Satanic blood drinking scandal. President Donald Trump will be left impotent and will almost certainly be impeached in 2019. Donald Trump said during the campaign, our policies are "pay to play." The Saudis do the paying and the Zionists do the playing. Q: Some experts believe that new non-nuclear sanctions against Iran by the U.S. are intended to restore any dismantled nuclear sanctions in new forms. What is your opinion? A: My opinion is that everything the U.S. Government is doing both overseas and at home lacks both intelligence and integrity. Our legitimately elected President Donald Trump is surrounded by traitors, pedophiles, and incompetents of his own choosing. His son in law is probably a Mossad agent who was targeted against Ivanka Trump on the basis of psychological and taste profiling done by known Mossad agents Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell. There are ten Goldman Sachs bankers on Trump's intimate staff, and over fifty Ashkenazi Jews controlling every aspect of economic and foreign policy in favor of the Zionists and Wall Street and City of London (which are in turn controlled by the Rothschilds and the Jesuit Black Pope), and against the best interests of the U.S. public or the U.S. Constitution which has been dishonored for a quarter century. ON A POSITIVE NOTE: Dr. Cynthia McKinney, a six-term former Congresswoman, and I have formed a new movement, #UNRIG: Summer of Peace, and we are hoping that a majority of the American public will execute a non-violent revolution this summer, demanding that each Member of Congress agree to sponsor the Election Reform Act of 2017 that would eliminate all sources of corruption in the U.S. electoral and governance system, and make possible transparent and honest decision-making.  Our Mission and Vision Statements are below: MISSION: To restore integrity and truth to governance, with the informed will and wisdom of We the People at its heart. VISION:  To enjoy a transparent government by 2022, that operates with honesty, respecting our planet and the human spirit, so that we may create a healthy, prosperous America rooted in truth with peace as our shared condition. This is the future of America the Beautiful, and the future of US relations with Iran, which I consider the honest adult in the region. We encourage donations to our educational campaign at http://tinyurl.com/IndieGoGo-UNRIG. 
PA/PA  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.