TEHRAN - Iran’s Foreign Ministry issued a statement on Thursday strongly condemning a new round of sanctions by the European Union on Iran over alleged human rights violations and drone deliveries to Russia. The ministry reacted to the sanctions by EU’s foreign ministers in an 11-article statement. The statement expressed “strong protest” against the imposition of “unacceptable and baseless” sanctions by the EU Union, saying, “The Islamic Republic of Iran believes that dialogue with the EU and its members are possible through mutual respect, trust, and interests.” “Accordingly, we have left the doors of dialogue open but we do not stop expressing our demands and critical views. Naturally, the opportunities to promote mutual interests will be significantly affected” if demonization of Iran is not stopped, it read, Press TV reported. According to a statement issued by the EU foreign ministers, 20 individuals along with one entity -- the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting -- have been sanctioned over alleged human rights abuses, while four more people and as many entities blacklisted over the issue of drones. The bloc's new sanctions include asset freezes and travel bans to the EU. Since the death of Kurdish woman Mahsa Amini in hospital in Tehran on Sept. 16, three days after she was arrested for inappropriate dress code by morality police, the West has been fanning the flames of unrest in Iran and imposed new wave of sanctions on the country. However, medical examinations showed that Masha Amini, 22, had died because of a chronic disease rather than claims of a blow to her head. She had been arrested to receive training on dress code. Recently, the Interior Ministry released a report confirming that about 200 people have been killed in the violent protests, among them dozens of security forces. 'Organized political campaigns against Iran' The statement added Iran has been “steadfast” in backing and promoting human rights despite campaigns waged by some governments to defame the country. Iran never accepts “the fabricated agendas”, which are part of an “organized political campaign” to put maximum pressure on the country that is simultaneous fighting moves to isolate Tehran internationally and resisting U.S.-led “economic war”, it said. The statement slammed in “strongest terms” the exploitation of international mechanism, be it in the UN Human Right Council or meetings of EU foreign ministers. It noted that Iran’s police and security forces have acted to contain the violence according to “precise and defined” regulations which are based on laws and religious teachings and respect for the rights of individuals.  ‘Brazen double standards’ The issue of human rights has become a tool for pursuing the “political goals” of some European and American governments, the ministry added. The statement reminded the West of its “brazen double standards” with regard to its allies such as Israel that is flagrantly violating human rights in the occupied Palestinian territories. These countries are "morally disqualified" to preach others about human rights, it stressed. The ministry added that according to a UN report, Western countries have violated human rights because of following the illegal and inhumane American sanctions against Iranians and hence, should be held accountable. European countries have complied with unilateral sanctions imposed by the U.S. since 2018 against Iran. These sanctions have basically targeted civilians as they have, for instance, restricted Iran’s access to medicine and medical equipment. The ministry said European countries have been following the United States’ “illegal sanctions” against Iranian people, including “women, youth, babies, and ethnic and religious minorities and therefore they are violators of human rights.” ‘West obliged to confront violence, hatred’ Citing UN General Assembly resolutions A/RES/60/288, and A/RES/2625, the ministry noted that “Western countries are obliged to confront violence, hatred, terrorism, offenses, and riots of individuals in their territories.” These states do not want to or cannot adhere to their international commitments under these resolutions, the statement said. Iran does not tolerate activities of those individuals or institutes that are involved in the promotion of terrorism and violence and will use “all its legal and judicial capacities at the national and international levels” to secure the rights of people, it added. Intelligence reports have pointed to the leading role of terrorist groups such as MKO and the London-based media such as Iran International in inflaming violence during recent riots in Iran.  ‘West is confused on JCPOA’ Elsewhere, the statement referred to the stalled talks on the lifting of the U.S. sanctions and revival of the 2015 nuclear deal (JCPOA), noting that Iran’s demands fall within the framework of the Vienna talks. The “long list of blatant violations” of the JCPOA by Europeans and the U.S. leaves no other choice for Iran but to “be realistic” for the future, it maintained. “The Islamic Republic of Iran aims to clinch a lasting and stable agreement that firstly guarantees Iran’s benefits from the lifting of sanctions and secondly, cannot be easily violated under the influence of internal policies of governments.” Tehran is ready to conclude the talks based on a draft that has been earlier obtained after months-long negotiations in Vienna, the statement said, adding that it is the Western side that is “confused” given its adoption of “unrealistic and miscalculated” policies. The Foreign Ministry also noted that as a member of the NPT, Iran has always cooperated with the IAEA according to its international commitments and is "determined" to maintain this cooperation. It also advised the Western states “not to politicize” the case and “disturb technical cooperation” between Iran and the IAEA. ‘No drone delivered for Ukraine war’ The ministry also reiterated Tehran’s “principled stance” on the Ukrainian crisis which has always been “supporting the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the need to end the conflict through political solutions.” It once again rejected the Western media’s reports of drone delivery to Russia, noting that “Iran has not offered any drone to any side for using in the Ukraine war.” Earlier, Foreign Minister Amir Abdollahian said that drone allegations are aimed at legitimizing the West's military assistance to Kiev. The statement further noted the U.S., Britain, and France have “knowingly” provided the Saudi-led coalition with lethal arms which according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights have been used in attacks against civilians.  ‘Iran’s defense ability will never be negotiable’ Iran has never waged war on its neighbors, but has been the target of attacks, the ministry added in another article of the statement. Saddam Hussein’s 8-year war against Iran in the 1980s turned the “development of defense capabilities” into a necessity for Iran and this “will never be negotiable” it added.  It went on to say that “Iran is committed to endogenous and inclusive security, stability, and welfare of the region.” ‘Iran pioneer in upholding women’s rights’ Elsewhere in its 11-article statement, the ministry said that the rights of all Iranian citizens, including women, have always been respected and that Iran is “pioneer” in providing equal opportunities, such as education, for women. It added that the bitter experiences of the crimes committed by Daesh (ISIS) are still haunting the people in West Asia. “Despite claims by the U.S. and its allies if it had not been for the role of Iran and great heroes of the fight against terrorism, (including) martyr commander Qassem Soleimani and efforts of the nations of Iraq and Syria in fighting, containing and defeating the wave of the Daesh terrorism, not only regional security and stability but also international peace and security would have been seriously endangered,” the statement said.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.