In the meeting held on Venezuela's Independence Day, the two sides discussed ways to expand their relations. Mottaki arrived in Caracas on Wednesday and was warmly welcomed by a big crowd of people. The Iranian diplomat also held talks on Thursday with Venezuelan Parliament Speaker Cilia Floras. The Iranian official said in the meeting that Iran and Venezuela enjoy good relations in accordance with the political will of the countries' leaders, and underlined the need to further strengthen bilateral ties. Mottaki referred to the important position of Venezuela in Latin America and that of Iran in the Middle East, noting that they should upgrade political consultations and boost economic cooperation. Flores said in the meeting that Venezuela's Parliament supports the national political efforts of Iranian nation. She also underlined that the Parliament supports President Chavez in his keen efforts to expand relations with Iran. The Venezuelan official said Iran should enjoy its rights of peaceful use of atomic energy, adding that America has not any right to determine which countries can use nuclear energy. She said that the nation of Venezuela backs all nations who struggle for their independence. Mottaki was also scheduled to meet Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez.
                  Mottaki arrived in Caracas on Wednesday and was warmly welcomed by a big crowd of people. The Iranian diplomat also held talks on Thursday with Venezuelan Parliament Speaker Cilia Floras. The Iranian official said in the meeting that Iran and Venezuela enjoy good relations in accordance with the political will of the countries' leaders, and underlined the need to further strengthen bilateral ties. Mottaki referred to the important position of Venezuela in Latin America and that of Iran in the Middle East, noting that they should upgrade political consultations and boost economic cooperation. Flores said in the meeting that Venezuela's Parliament supports the national political efforts of Iranian nation. She also underlined that the Parliament supports President Chavez in his keen efforts to expand relations with Iran. The Venezuelan official said Iran should enjoy its rights of peaceful use of atomic energy, adding that America has not any right to determine which countries can use nuclear energy. She said that the nation of Venezuela backs all nations who struggle for their independence. Mottaki was also scheduled to meet Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez.
                  The Iranian diplomat also held talks on Thursday with Venezuelan Parliament Speaker Cilia Floras. The Iranian official said in the meeting that Iran and Venezuela enjoy good relations in accordance with the political will of the countries' leaders, and underlined the need to further strengthen bilateral ties. Mottaki referred to the important position of Venezuela in Latin America and that of Iran in the Middle East, noting that they should upgrade political consultations and boost economic cooperation. Flores said in the meeting that Venezuela's Parliament supports the national political efforts of Iranian nation. She also underlined that the Parliament supports President Chavez in his keen efforts to expand relations with Iran. The Venezuelan official said Iran should enjoy its rights of peaceful use of atomic energy, adding that America has not any right to determine which countries can use nuclear energy. She said that the nation of Venezuela backs all nations who struggle for their independence. Mottaki was also scheduled to meet Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez.
                  The Iranian official said in the meeting that Iran and Venezuela enjoy good relations in accordance with the political will of the countries' leaders, and underlined the need to further strengthen bilateral ties. Mottaki referred to the important position of Venezuela in Latin America and that of Iran in the Middle East, noting that they should upgrade political consultations and boost economic cooperation. Flores said in the meeting that Venezuela's Parliament supports the national political efforts of Iranian nation. She also underlined that the Parliament supports President Chavez in his keen efforts to expand relations with Iran. The Venezuelan official said Iran should enjoy its rights of peaceful use of atomic energy, adding that America has not any right to determine which countries can use nuclear energy. She said that the nation of Venezuela backs all nations who struggle for their independence. Mottaki was also scheduled to meet Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez.
                  Mottaki referred to the important position of Venezuela in Latin America and that of Iran in the Middle East, noting that they should upgrade political consultations and boost economic cooperation. Flores said in the meeting that Venezuela's Parliament supports the national political efforts of Iranian nation. She also underlined that the Parliament supports President Chavez in his keen efforts to expand relations with Iran. The Venezuelan official said Iran should enjoy its rights of peaceful use of atomic energy, adding that America has not any right to determine which countries can use nuclear energy. She said that the nation of Venezuela backs all nations who struggle for their independence. Mottaki was also scheduled to meet Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez.
                  Flores said in the meeting that Venezuela's Parliament supports the national political efforts of Iranian nation. She also underlined that the Parliament supports President Chavez in his keen efforts to expand relations with Iran. The Venezuelan official said Iran should enjoy its rights of peaceful use of atomic energy, adding that America has not any right to determine which countries can use nuclear energy. She said that the nation of Venezuela backs all nations who struggle for their independence. Mottaki was also scheduled to meet Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez.
                  The Venezuelan official said Iran should enjoy its rights of peaceful use of atomic energy, adding that America has not any right to determine which countries can use nuclear energy. She said that the nation of Venezuela backs all nations who struggle for their independence. Mottaki was also scheduled to meet Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez.
                  She said that the nation of Venezuela backs all nations who struggle for their independence. Mottaki was also scheduled to meet Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez.
                  Mottaki was also scheduled to meet Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.