During the meeting, the two officials underlined the necessity of removing all obstacles and accelerating the conduction of the agreements to establish mine and industry representative offices in both countries. Elsewhere in the meeting, Shaterzadeh pointed to Iran’s readiness for executing all bilateral agreements and expressed hope that after the visit of the Venezuelan president to Iran a new chapter would be opened in mutual relations between Iran and Venezuela. He also went on to say that President Mahmud Ahmadinejad had underlined the necessity to strengthen bilateral relations with Venezuela. The Venezuelan deputy minister said for his part that President Hugo Chavez was personally pursuing the promotion of Iran–Venezuela relations. Further in the session, the two officials studied mutual plans in order to develop economic cooperation. Iran–Venezuela mutual economic plans include the construction of a cement plant, the construction of a bicycle manufacturing factory, construction of some 10,000 residential units, and launching a tractor assembly line in Venezuela. Concluding an oil and gas contract between the Petropars company and a Venezuelan company, concluding MOUs on promoting healthcare, breeding aquatics, manufacturing automobiles in Venezuela, etc. were among other plans discussed during the meeting.
                  Elsewhere in the meeting, Shaterzadeh pointed to Iran’s readiness for executing all bilateral agreements and expressed hope that after the visit of the Venezuelan president to Iran a new chapter would be opened in mutual relations between Iran and Venezuela. He also went on to say that President Mahmud Ahmadinejad had underlined the necessity to strengthen bilateral relations with Venezuela. The Venezuelan deputy minister said for his part that President Hugo Chavez was personally pursuing the promotion of Iran–Venezuela relations. Further in the session, the two officials studied mutual plans in order to develop economic cooperation. Iran–Venezuela mutual economic plans include the construction of a cement plant, the construction of a bicycle manufacturing factory, construction of some 10,000 residential units, and launching a tractor assembly line in Venezuela. Concluding an oil and gas contract between the Petropars company and a Venezuelan company, concluding MOUs on promoting healthcare, breeding aquatics, manufacturing automobiles in Venezuela, etc. were among other plans discussed during the meeting.
                  He also went on to say that President Mahmud Ahmadinejad had underlined the necessity to strengthen bilateral relations with Venezuela. The Venezuelan deputy minister said for his part that President Hugo Chavez was personally pursuing the promotion of Iran–Venezuela relations. Further in the session, the two officials studied mutual plans in order to develop economic cooperation. Iran–Venezuela mutual economic plans include the construction of a cement plant, the construction of a bicycle manufacturing factory, construction of some 10,000 residential units, and launching a tractor assembly line in Venezuela. Concluding an oil and gas contract between the Petropars company and a Venezuelan company, concluding MOUs on promoting healthcare, breeding aquatics, manufacturing automobiles in Venezuela, etc. were among other plans discussed during the meeting.
                  The Venezuelan deputy minister said for his part that President Hugo Chavez was personally pursuing the promotion of Iran–Venezuela relations. Further in the session, the two officials studied mutual plans in order to develop economic cooperation. Iran–Venezuela mutual economic plans include the construction of a cement plant, the construction of a bicycle manufacturing factory, construction of some 10,000 residential units, and launching a tractor assembly line in Venezuela. Concluding an oil and gas contract between the Petropars company and a Venezuelan company, concluding MOUs on promoting healthcare, breeding aquatics, manufacturing automobiles in Venezuela, etc. were among other plans discussed during the meeting.
                  Further in the session, the two officials studied mutual plans in order to develop economic cooperation. Iran–Venezuela mutual economic plans include the construction of a cement plant, the construction of a bicycle manufacturing factory, construction of some 10,000 residential units, and launching a tractor assembly line in Venezuela. Concluding an oil and gas contract between the Petropars company and a Venezuelan company, concluding MOUs on promoting healthcare, breeding aquatics, manufacturing automobiles in Venezuela, etc. were among other plans discussed during the meeting.
                  Iran–Venezuela mutual economic plans include the construction of a cement plant, the construction of a bicycle manufacturing factory, construction of some 10,000 residential units, and launching a tractor assembly line in Venezuela. Concluding an oil and gas contract between the Petropars company and a Venezuelan company, concluding MOUs on promoting healthcare, breeding aquatics, manufacturing automobiles in Venezuela, etc. were among other plans discussed during the meeting.
                  Concluding an oil and gas contract between the Petropars company and a Venezuelan company, concluding MOUs on promoting healthcare, breeding aquatics, manufacturing automobiles in Venezuela, etc. were among other plans discussed during the meeting.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.