TEHRAN _ (MNA) – A Member of Bahrain’s Al-Wefaq National Islamic Society Sheikh Mohammad Khojasteh pointed to the critical situation of Bahrain’s political prisoners, captured by Al-Khalifa regime, and urged the international community to take immediate action to stop the suffering of these people. Al-Khalifa regime has recently intensified its hostile measures against Bahraini revolutionaries. The arrest of a large number of Bahraini children and torture of political prisoners in Al-Khalifa prisons is a solid evidence for this claim. In the same direction, Al-Khalifa regime terms political prisoners as offenders and violators of stipulated rules and regulations, a heinous move that is in fact considered as a kind of escaping from reality. All these measures happen at the time when Manama, capital of Bahrain, block the arrival of UN High Commissioner for the Human Rights (UNHCHR) in order to monitor the grave situation of human rights in this country.  Meanwhile, the international community continues its silence toward Al-Khalifa’s hostile actions against political prisoners in this country. On the other hand, the United States continues its financial and military support for Al-Khalifa regime regardless of warnings of the human rights institutions. Despite all developments and measures taken in this country, the UN High Commissioner for the Human Rights has not been able to grab the attention of Bahraini authorities for probing into the grave situation of human rights in this country. To shed more light on the details, Mehr News correspondent has conducted an interview with a member of Bahrain’s Al-Wefaq Society Sheikh Mohammad Khojasteh, the full text of which is as follows: Q: Recently, many news outlets are covering reports on al-Khalifa’s crackdown against Bahraini political prisoners. It is said that Al-Khalifa’s military men commit heinous crimes against the politician prisoners. What is the main cause of these repressive measures? A: In response to your question, I should say that torturing political prisoners by military forces of this cruel regime is nothing new. There has been torture against political prisoners of this country since the start of Bahraini people’s revolution in 2011. However, it seems that this trend has recently been exacerbated. Al-Khalifa regime is carrying out surprise attacks on prisons and political prisoners and these attacks have no justification. In general, Al-Khalifa regime beats up prisoners without any justification. On the other hand, political prisoners are also deprived of their inalienable rights, so that the injured are not treated. The meals distributed among the inmates do not suffice even for a child, let alone to all of them. These suppressive measures are even carried out against leaders of Bahraini revolution. Until now, only ordinary political prisoners were subjected to the brutal and cruel attacks of Al-Khalifa regime. But today, leaders of Bahraini revolution are also the targets of these actions. Al-Khalifa has even plundered all Bahraini belongings including their books. Q: Foreign Minister of Al-Khalifa regime has recently said that Bahraini political prisoners are criminals and measures taken in prisons are completely within the framework of the law. What is your opinion on these statements? A: Foreign Minister of Al-Khalifa regime’s understanding of the criminality of the political prisoners is completely rejected. Even human rights organizations and institutions acknowledged that more than 4,000 political prisoners kept in Al-Khalifa prisons are prisoner of conscience. These prisoners only demanded their rights. Of course, it is natural that the minister, who stands in the line of criminals and himself is considered as a human rights violator, makes such a claim to justify Al-Khalifa crimes against the revolutionaries. Q: Do you think that these repressive measures taken by Al-Khalifa regime have so far led to halting the revolutionary movement? Is it possible that brutal acts of Al-Khalifa regime can have an effect on the will of Bahraini people? A: I should say that what has happened today is just the opposite of this issue. The determination and will of Bahraini people have increased more and more and this fact is not unbeknown to anyone. Not only these brutal acts have failed to impede the revolutionary spirit of Bahraini people, but also this fighting spirit has been brought into the prisons themselves. Today, Bahraini prisoners stand against Al-Khalifa’s savagery and their brutal acts. Today, we are witnessing the revolutionary movements against this regime in Al-Khalifa’s prisons, such as the hunger strikes. An international effort is needed to put an end to the grievous condition of Bahraini prisoners who are in dire need of medical treatment. Q: Arresting children and young adults in Bahrain is another new move taken by Al-Khalifa against revolutionaries. In this regard, Al-Khalifa has recently arrested eight Bahraini children. What is your assessment in this respect? A: The fact is this the Al-Khalifa regime does not discriminate in committing crimes against Bahraini people. This regime arrests and tortures underage children. Therefore, it is clear that no one is safe from crimes that Al-Khalifa commits against oppressed people of Bahrain.Today, there are many children, women, old men and women in Al-Khalifa prison. Presently, prisoners, aged above 70 and underage children, are in Al-Khalifa solitary confinements. These measures are done to stop Bahraini Revolution, but none of them have so far yielded any results. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.