During the meeting, Ayatollah Khamenei said the identity and thoughts of the founder of the Islamic Republic were dynamic, adding that the most important responsibility is to safeguard and follow the thought and guidelines of the late Imam Khomeini. Pointing to the indefatigable and strong personality of Imam Khomeini, he said that in an era in which religion had a weak presence in social and personal affairs, Imam Khomeini entered the stage, relying on his clear and real belief in God, with no fear of any difficulties or threats. “He explicitly introduced religion as the foundation of human life and founded the government on religious principles. Imam Khomeini was the founder of that sapling of truth that has now taken root. Thus, despite all the plots, no great power in the world can defeat it,” the Leader added. Ayatollah Khamenei stated that the hostility of the authoritarian powers toward the Islamic government of Iran is actually meant to oppose the guidelines of the late Imam Khomeini, adding that although 17 years have passed since the demise of the founder of the Islamic Republic, his identity and guidelines are still the target of vindictive measures. He noted that Muslims’ love of Imam Khomeini and his ideology indicates the strategic depth of Imam Khomeini’s thought and the Islamic Republic ruling system. Those who identify themselves as followers of Imam Khomeini should follow his guidelines and should not seek personal interests under the guise of serving the Islamic government, the Leader stated. He went on to say that those who claim to be followers of Imam Khomeini must not try to separate religion from politics, adding that even those Western nations that try to separate ideology from politics are loyal to their own principles and beliefs. Ayatollah Khamenei also said that Iranians must clearly define religious limits and prevent them from fading.
                  Pointing to the indefatigable and strong personality of Imam Khomeini, he said that in an era in which religion had a weak presence in social and personal affairs, Imam Khomeini entered the stage, relying on his clear and real belief in God, with no fear of any difficulties or threats. “He explicitly introduced religion as the foundation of human life and founded the government on religious principles. Imam Khomeini was the founder of that sapling of truth that has now taken root. Thus, despite all the plots, no great power in the world can defeat it,” the Leader added. Ayatollah Khamenei stated that the hostility of the authoritarian powers toward the Islamic government of Iran is actually meant to oppose the guidelines of the late Imam Khomeini, adding that although 17 years have passed since the demise of the founder of the Islamic Republic, his identity and guidelines are still the target of vindictive measures. He noted that Muslims’ love of Imam Khomeini and his ideology indicates the strategic depth of Imam Khomeini’s thought and the Islamic Republic ruling system. Those who identify themselves as followers of Imam Khomeini should follow his guidelines and should not seek personal interests under the guise of serving the Islamic government, the Leader stated. He went on to say that those who claim to be followers of Imam Khomeini must not try to separate religion from politics, adding that even those Western nations that try to separate ideology from politics are loyal to their own principles and beliefs. Ayatollah Khamenei also said that Iranians must clearly define religious limits and prevent them from fading.
                  “He explicitly introduced religion as the foundation of human life and founded the government on religious principles. Imam Khomeini was the founder of that sapling of truth that has now taken root. Thus, despite all the plots, no great power in the world can defeat it,” the Leader added. Ayatollah Khamenei stated that the hostility of the authoritarian powers toward the Islamic government of Iran is actually meant to oppose the guidelines of the late Imam Khomeini, adding that although 17 years have passed since the demise of the founder of the Islamic Republic, his identity and guidelines are still the target of vindictive measures. He noted that Muslims’ love of Imam Khomeini and his ideology indicates the strategic depth of Imam Khomeini’s thought and the Islamic Republic ruling system. Those who identify themselves as followers of Imam Khomeini should follow his guidelines and should not seek personal interests under the guise of serving the Islamic government, the Leader stated. He went on to say that those who claim to be followers of Imam Khomeini must not try to separate religion from politics, adding that even those Western nations that try to separate ideology from politics are loyal to their own principles and beliefs. Ayatollah Khamenei also said that Iranians must clearly define religious limits and prevent them from fading.
                  Ayatollah Khamenei stated that the hostility of the authoritarian powers toward the Islamic government of Iran is actually meant to oppose the guidelines of the late Imam Khomeini, adding that although 17 years have passed since the demise of the founder of the Islamic Republic, his identity and guidelines are still the target of vindictive measures. He noted that Muslims’ love of Imam Khomeini and his ideology indicates the strategic depth of Imam Khomeini’s thought and the Islamic Republic ruling system. Those who identify themselves as followers of Imam Khomeini should follow his guidelines and should not seek personal interests under the guise of serving the Islamic government, the Leader stated. He went on to say that those who claim to be followers of Imam Khomeini must not try to separate religion from politics, adding that even those Western nations that try to separate ideology from politics are loyal to their own principles and beliefs. Ayatollah Khamenei also said that Iranians must clearly define religious limits and prevent them from fading.
                  He noted that Muslims’ love of Imam Khomeini and his ideology indicates the strategic depth of Imam Khomeini’s thought and the Islamic Republic ruling system. Those who identify themselves as followers of Imam Khomeini should follow his guidelines and should not seek personal interests under the guise of serving the Islamic government, the Leader stated. He went on to say that those who claim to be followers of Imam Khomeini must not try to separate religion from politics, adding that even those Western nations that try to separate ideology from politics are loyal to their own principles and beliefs. Ayatollah Khamenei also said that Iranians must clearly define religious limits and prevent them from fading.
                  Those who identify themselves as followers of Imam Khomeini should follow his guidelines and should not seek personal interests under the guise of serving the Islamic government, the Leader stated. He went on to say that those who claim to be followers of Imam Khomeini must not try to separate religion from politics, adding that even those Western nations that try to separate ideology from politics are loyal to their own principles and beliefs. Ayatollah Khamenei also said that Iranians must clearly define religious limits and prevent them from fading.
                  He went on to say that those who claim to be followers of Imam Khomeini must not try to separate religion from politics, adding that even those Western nations that try to separate ideology from politics are loyal to their own principles and beliefs. Ayatollah Khamenei also said that Iranians must clearly define religious limits and prevent them from fading.
                  Ayatollah Khamenei also said that Iranians must clearly define religious limits and prevent them from fading.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.