At the meeting, Khatami stressed that African nations have a significant status in Iran's foreign policy, and called for promotion of Tehran-Banjul relations in all areas. He recalled the struggles of African freedom movements for the cause of independence from world colonial powers, terming the 21st century the century of progress, development and use of potentials to help Africa attain its real standing. Ceesay, for his part, conveyed the warm greetings of the Gambian President Yaya Jammeh to President Khatami, and voiced Gambia's interest in promoting ties with the Islamic republic. He appreciated Iran's efforts to support the oppressed people of the world particularly those in the world of Islam. The Gambian ambassador also extended an invitation to President Khatami to visit West Africa and Gambia. Also, Mukhtar Ceesay here Tuesday submitted a copy of his credentials to Minister of Foreign Affairs Kamal Kharrazi. Ceesay described Iran as country playing a decisive role in the region and in the Islamic world. He expressed his country's readiness to expand mutual ties with Iran in all areas. Kharrazi, for his part, underlined the need to enhance Iran-Gambia relations in various fields, IRNA reported. He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                  He recalled the struggles of African freedom movements for the cause of independence from world colonial powers, terming the 21st century the century of progress, development and use of potentials to help Africa attain its real standing. Ceesay, for his part, conveyed the warm greetings of the Gambian President Yaya Jammeh to President Khatami, and voiced Gambia's interest in promoting ties with the Islamic republic. He appreciated Iran's efforts to support the oppressed people of the world particularly those in the world of Islam. The Gambian ambassador also extended an invitation to President Khatami to visit West Africa and Gambia. Also, Mukhtar Ceesay here Tuesday submitted a copy of his credentials to Minister of Foreign Affairs Kamal Kharrazi. Ceesay described Iran as country playing a decisive role in the region and in the Islamic world. He expressed his country's readiness to expand mutual ties with Iran in all areas. Kharrazi, for his part, underlined the need to enhance Iran-Gambia relations in various fields, IRNA reported. He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                  Ceesay, for his part, conveyed the warm greetings of the Gambian President Yaya Jammeh to President Khatami, and voiced Gambia's interest in promoting ties with the Islamic republic. He appreciated Iran's efforts to support the oppressed people of the world particularly those in the world of Islam. The Gambian ambassador also extended an invitation to President Khatami to visit West Africa and Gambia. Also, Mukhtar Ceesay here Tuesday submitted a copy of his credentials to Minister of Foreign Affairs Kamal Kharrazi. Ceesay described Iran as country playing a decisive role in the region and in the Islamic world. He expressed his country's readiness to expand mutual ties with Iran in all areas. Kharrazi, for his part, underlined the need to enhance Iran-Gambia relations in various fields, IRNA reported. He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                  He appreciated Iran's efforts to support the oppressed people of the world particularly those in the world of Islam. The Gambian ambassador also extended an invitation to President Khatami to visit West Africa and Gambia. Also, Mukhtar Ceesay here Tuesday submitted a copy of his credentials to Minister of Foreign Affairs Kamal Kharrazi. Ceesay described Iran as country playing a decisive role in the region and in the Islamic world. He expressed his country's readiness to expand mutual ties with Iran in all areas. Kharrazi, for his part, underlined the need to enhance Iran-Gambia relations in various fields, IRNA reported. He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                  The Gambian ambassador also extended an invitation to President Khatami to visit West Africa and Gambia. Also, Mukhtar Ceesay here Tuesday submitted a copy of his credentials to Minister of Foreign Affairs Kamal Kharrazi. Ceesay described Iran as country playing a decisive role in the region and in the Islamic world. He expressed his country's readiness to expand mutual ties with Iran in all areas. Kharrazi, for his part, underlined the need to enhance Iran-Gambia relations in various fields, IRNA reported. He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                  Also, Mukhtar Ceesay here Tuesday submitted a copy of his credentials to Minister of Foreign Affairs Kamal Kharrazi. Ceesay described Iran as country playing a decisive role in the region and in the Islamic world. He expressed his country's readiness to expand mutual ties with Iran in all areas. Kharrazi, for his part, underlined the need to enhance Iran-Gambia relations in various fields, IRNA reported. He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                  Ceesay described Iran as country playing a decisive role in the region and in the Islamic world. He expressed his country's readiness to expand mutual ties with Iran in all areas. Kharrazi, for his part, underlined the need to enhance Iran-Gambia relations in various fields, IRNA reported. He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                  He expressed his country's readiness to expand mutual ties with Iran in all areas. Kharrazi, for his part, underlined the need to enhance Iran-Gambia relations in various fields, IRNA reported. He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                  Kharrazi, for his part, underlined the need to enhance Iran-Gambia relations in various fields, IRNA reported. He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                  He stressed that Iran's foreign policy is based on expanding ties with all African countries with an aim of pushing forward South-South cooperation.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.