The PGCC Following its 28th extraordinary session in a bulletin released in Riyadh said that the PGCC Foreign ministers focused on the political and security developments in the region and reviewed Iran nuclear issue with the aim of peaceful resolution to the deadlock. Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain are the Persian Gulf Cooperation Council's members. Those six states officially called for establishment of the PGCC as a regional organization on May 27, 1981 in Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates. PGCC has called for resumption of efforts to settle Iran's nuclear dossier at the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). PGCC Secretary-General Abd ar-Rahman al-Atiyah also called for diplomatic resolution of the nuclear file during an interview with the Saudi daily ‘Okaz’ published last month. The PGCC hopes the United Nations Security Council would give the IAEA more opportunity to settle Iran's nuclear case, he said. The PGCC believes the IAEA is the most suitable body to preserve peace and security and discuss Iran's nuclear dossier, he added. Al-Atiyah stressed that the PGCC was quite confident Tehran was honestly seeking a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis, saying the council regards peaceful ways and dialogue as the best means of settling the issue. He said that the region cannot tolerate a new crisis, adding that access to peaceful nuclear energy is a right of every country and no state can be deprived of this right under IAEA regulations. The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                  Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain are the Persian Gulf Cooperation Council's members. Those six states officially called for establishment of the PGCC as a regional organization on May 27, 1981 in Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates. PGCC has called for resumption of efforts to settle Iran's nuclear dossier at the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). PGCC Secretary-General Abd ar-Rahman al-Atiyah also called for diplomatic resolution of the nuclear file during an interview with the Saudi daily ‘Okaz’ published last month. The PGCC hopes the United Nations Security Council would give the IAEA more opportunity to settle Iran's nuclear case, he said. The PGCC believes the IAEA is the most suitable body to preserve peace and security and discuss Iran's nuclear dossier, he added. Al-Atiyah stressed that the PGCC was quite confident Tehran was honestly seeking a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis, saying the council regards peaceful ways and dialogue as the best means of settling the issue. He said that the region cannot tolerate a new crisis, adding that access to peaceful nuclear energy is a right of every country and no state can be deprived of this right under IAEA regulations. The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                  Those six states officially called for establishment of the PGCC as a regional organization on May 27, 1981 in Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates. PGCC has called for resumption of efforts to settle Iran's nuclear dossier at the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). PGCC Secretary-General Abd ar-Rahman al-Atiyah also called for diplomatic resolution of the nuclear file during an interview with the Saudi daily ‘Okaz’ published last month. The PGCC hopes the United Nations Security Council would give the IAEA more opportunity to settle Iran's nuclear case, he said. The PGCC believes the IAEA is the most suitable body to preserve peace and security and discuss Iran's nuclear dossier, he added. Al-Atiyah stressed that the PGCC was quite confident Tehran was honestly seeking a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis, saying the council regards peaceful ways and dialogue as the best means of settling the issue. He said that the region cannot tolerate a new crisis, adding that access to peaceful nuclear energy is a right of every country and no state can be deprived of this right under IAEA regulations. The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                  PGCC has called for resumption of efforts to settle Iran's nuclear dossier at the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). PGCC Secretary-General Abd ar-Rahman al-Atiyah also called for diplomatic resolution of the nuclear file during an interview with the Saudi daily ‘Okaz’ published last month. The PGCC hopes the United Nations Security Council would give the IAEA more opportunity to settle Iran's nuclear case, he said. The PGCC believes the IAEA is the most suitable body to preserve peace and security and discuss Iran's nuclear dossier, he added. Al-Atiyah stressed that the PGCC was quite confident Tehran was honestly seeking a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis, saying the council regards peaceful ways and dialogue as the best means of settling the issue. He said that the region cannot tolerate a new crisis, adding that access to peaceful nuclear energy is a right of every country and no state can be deprived of this right under IAEA regulations. The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                  PGCC Secretary-General Abd ar-Rahman al-Atiyah also called for diplomatic resolution of the nuclear file during an interview with the Saudi daily ‘Okaz’ published last month. The PGCC hopes the United Nations Security Council would give the IAEA more opportunity to settle Iran's nuclear case, he said. The PGCC believes the IAEA is the most suitable body to preserve peace and security and discuss Iran's nuclear dossier, he added. Al-Atiyah stressed that the PGCC was quite confident Tehran was honestly seeking a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis, saying the council regards peaceful ways and dialogue as the best means of settling the issue. He said that the region cannot tolerate a new crisis, adding that access to peaceful nuclear energy is a right of every country and no state can be deprived of this right under IAEA regulations. The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                  The PGCC hopes the United Nations Security Council would give the IAEA more opportunity to settle Iran's nuclear case, he said. The PGCC believes the IAEA is the most suitable body to preserve peace and security and discuss Iran's nuclear dossier, he added. Al-Atiyah stressed that the PGCC was quite confident Tehran was honestly seeking a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis, saying the council regards peaceful ways and dialogue as the best means of settling the issue. He said that the region cannot tolerate a new crisis, adding that access to peaceful nuclear energy is a right of every country and no state can be deprived of this right under IAEA regulations. The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                  The PGCC believes the IAEA is the most suitable body to preserve peace and security and discuss Iran's nuclear dossier, he added. Al-Atiyah stressed that the PGCC was quite confident Tehran was honestly seeking a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis, saying the council regards peaceful ways and dialogue as the best means of settling the issue. He said that the region cannot tolerate a new crisis, adding that access to peaceful nuclear energy is a right of every country and no state can be deprived of this right under IAEA regulations. The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                  Al-Atiyah stressed that the PGCC was quite confident Tehran was honestly seeking a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis, saying the council regards peaceful ways and dialogue as the best means of settling the issue. He said that the region cannot tolerate a new crisis, adding that access to peaceful nuclear energy is a right of every country and no state can be deprived of this right under IAEA regulations. The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                  He said that the region cannot tolerate a new crisis, adding that access to peaceful nuclear energy is a right of every country and no state can be deprived of this right under IAEA regulations. The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                  The PGCC secretary-general praised the historical and friendly ties between Iran and Persian Gulf littoral states, and noted that both sides have regular consultations on regional and international developments.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.