"If some words personally injured you, I regret them and I take them back," Villepin said to lawmakers during a question-and-answer session in the National Assembly, with Socialist leader Francois Hollande looking on. On Tuesday, left-wing lawmakers in France's National Assembly jumped from their chairs, booed and shouted "Resign, resign!" after a visibly agitated Villepin accused Hollande of cowardice. The unusual uproar caused the body's president to interrupt the session. Wednesday's apology was as uncharacteristic as the initial outburst for Villepin, often praised for his polish and eloquence before a series of crises this spring battered his reputation. In the Tuesday clash, Villepin grew angry after Hollande accused the government of irresponsibility and questioned him about problems at defense company EADS, the parent of Airbus. "Mr. Hollande, I denounce your facile approach — and I will even say this looking you in the eyes — the cowardice in your attitude," Villepin said. "I'll say it again: cowardice." Villepin appeared to be angry that Hollande was listing criticisms with no proposals for solutions. French media made much out of the name-calling, with television and radio stations repeatedly running clips of the incident. Although outbursts are frequent in the National Assembly, Tuesday's was of rare intensity. Villepin called Wednesday for "respect" and "dialogue," and Socialist lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault acknowledged the apology.
                  On Tuesday, left-wing lawmakers in France's National Assembly jumped from their chairs, booed and shouted "Resign, resign!" after a visibly agitated Villepin accused Hollande of cowardice. The unusual uproar caused the body's president to interrupt the session. Wednesday's apology was as uncharacteristic as the initial outburst for Villepin, often praised for his polish and eloquence before a series of crises this spring battered his reputation. In the Tuesday clash, Villepin grew angry after Hollande accused the government of irresponsibility and questioned him about problems at defense company EADS, the parent of Airbus. "Mr. Hollande, I denounce your facile approach — and I will even say this looking you in the eyes — the cowardice in your attitude," Villepin said. "I'll say it again: cowardice." Villepin appeared to be angry that Hollande was listing criticisms with no proposals for solutions. French media made much out of the name-calling, with television and radio stations repeatedly running clips of the incident. Although outbursts are frequent in the National Assembly, Tuesday's was of rare intensity. Villepin called Wednesday for "respect" and "dialogue," and Socialist lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault acknowledged the apology.
                  Wednesday's apology was as uncharacteristic as the initial outburst for Villepin, often praised for his polish and eloquence before a series of crises this spring battered his reputation. In the Tuesday clash, Villepin grew angry after Hollande accused the government of irresponsibility and questioned him about problems at defense company EADS, the parent of Airbus. "Mr. Hollande, I denounce your facile approach — and I will even say this looking you in the eyes — the cowardice in your attitude," Villepin said. "I'll say it again: cowardice." Villepin appeared to be angry that Hollande was listing criticisms with no proposals for solutions. French media made much out of the name-calling, with television and radio stations repeatedly running clips of the incident. Although outbursts are frequent in the National Assembly, Tuesday's was of rare intensity. Villepin called Wednesday for "respect" and "dialogue," and Socialist lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault acknowledged the apology.
                  In the Tuesday clash, Villepin grew angry after Hollande accused the government of irresponsibility and questioned him about problems at defense company EADS, the parent of Airbus. "Mr. Hollande, I denounce your facile approach — and I will even say this looking you in the eyes — the cowardice in your attitude," Villepin said. "I'll say it again: cowardice." Villepin appeared to be angry that Hollande was listing criticisms with no proposals for solutions. French media made much out of the name-calling, with television and radio stations repeatedly running clips of the incident. Although outbursts are frequent in the National Assembly, Tuesday's was of rare intensity. Villepin called Wednesday for "respect" and "dialogue," and Socialist lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault acknowledged the apology.
                  "Mr. Hollande, I denounce your facile approach — and I will even say this looking you in the eyes — the cowardice in your attitude," Villepin said. "I'll say it again: cowardice." Villepin appeared to be angry that Hollande was listing criticisms with no proposals for solutions. French media made much out of the name-calling, with television and radio stations repeatedly running clips of the incident. Although outbursts are frequent in the National Assembly, Tuesday's was of rare intensity. Villepin called Wednesday for "respect" and "dialogue," and Socialist lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault acknowledged the apology.
                  "I'll say it again: cowardice." Villepin appeared to be angry that Hollande was listing criticisms with no proposals for solutions. French media made much out of the name-calling, with television and radio stations repeatedly running clips of the incident. Although outbursts are frequent in the National Assembly, Tuesday's was of rare intensity. Villepin called Wednesday for "respect" and "dialogue," and Socialist lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault acknowledged the apology.
                  Villepin appeared to be angry that Hollande was listing criticisms with no proposals for solutions. French media made much out of the name-calling, with television and radio stations repeatedly running clips of the incident. Although outbursts are frequent in the National Assembly, Tuesday's was of rare intensity. Villepin called Wednesday for "respect" and "dialogue," and Socialist lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault acknowledged the apology.
                  French media made much out of the name-calling, with television and radio stations repeatedly running clips of the incident. Although outbursts are frequent in the National Assembly, Tuesday's was of rare intensity. Villepin called Wednesday for "respect" and "dialogue," and Socialist lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault acknowledged the apology.
                  Villepin called Wednesday for "respect" and "dialogue," and Socialist lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault acknowledged the apology.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.