TEHRAN _  In 2006, citizens of Catalonia called for the autonomy of this state in a massive referendum. At the same time, some independent and separatist groups were active in the region. But their activity was very limited because many Catalan residents believed that, being autonomous, there was no place for a claim for independence from Spain. However, over time, we witnessed an intensification of economic crises in Catalonia, on the one hand, and an increase in the autonomists' propaganda campaigns on the other hand. The increase of Catalonia's debt to central government (nearly 42 billion euros) has been the result of the failure of central government officials in Madrid. On the other hand, Catalonia's independence advocates believe that despite the provision of 20 percent of Spain's GDP by Catalans, as well as providing 27 percent of Spain's total exports by Catalonia, there is a proper ground for the independence of this state and its transformation into an independent country. On the other side, opponents of Catalonia's autonomy, despite the existing dissatisfaction of the central government and in particular its tax policy towards Catalonia, are in favor of alternatives such as greater autonomy and improvement of existing relations. They believe that Catalonia's separation from Spain is the worst possible option, because in this case, Spain will cut off its relations with Catalonia and will not be a trade partner for it. Moreover, many European countries will not recognize the independence of Catalonia. This will create a lot of trouble for the inhabitants of Catalonia. However, many post-2006 presidential analysts predicted that the desire of the citizens of Catalonia for independence will become a major hardship for the Madrid government. It might have been better if the right-wing and socialist parties in Spain took better measures towards Catalonia and took the necessary precautions to prevent the realization of the current situation. However, this didn't happen! Madrid government is now in control of Catalonia, and soon there will be an early parliamentary election.The Spanish Foreign Secretary has emphasized that Catalonia's independence is not possible, but more can be negotiated with the Catalans over autonomy. Perhaps this is the most logical position towards recent changes in Catalonia. It should not be forgotten that only 43% of the inhabitants of Catalonia participated in the October general referendum. The lack of participation of 57% of the Catalans showed that they did not have an interest in separating from Spain. Obviously this is the best opportunity for a long-term settlement of the Catalan crisis. Many European thinkers believe that the only solution to the crisis in Catalonia is direct talks without tension between the central government and the Catalans. This may happen in the near future. Here again, it is emphasized that, despite the dissatisfaction of the central government, many Catalans do not want a separation from Spain. This could be seen even before the October referendum. Despite the widespread propaganda of the supporters of Catalonia's independence, the number of opponents of independence is still higher than the number of supporters. Thus, the supporters of the independence of Catalonia have failed to persuade the majority of the inhabitants of the region to independence from Spain. Many Europe thinkers believe that the best way to control the crisis in Catalonia is through the rational negotiations between the central government and the Catalans on the issues of disagreement, such as the tax issue. A topic that will be welcomed by many Catalan inhabitants. The European Union's concerns over the undergoing changes in Catalonia are also fully understood. European officials are deeply concerned about the impact of other currents and independent groups in the various European Union member states. This concern has led the European Union to back up the Spanish government against Catalonia's independence crisis. An important and final point in this regard is the U.S. government's stance on recent changes in Catalonia. Donald Trump and other U.S. officials seem to support Spain and are in opposition to Catalonia's independence. However, there is a significant difference between the declared positions and the practical approach of the American authorities. It should not be forgotten that Washington is one of the main advocates of the fragmentation and undermining of the United Europe. The fact is that the president of the United States welcomes any incident and action that is taking place in the direction of undermining Europe. This rule also applies to the independence of Catalonia and its separation from Spain.This issue will, of course, stimulate another separatist groups in Europe, and this is precisely what Donald Trump and his entourage are looking for. Bilateral contacts between Trump and extremist groups indicate that the president of the United States is still demanding the destruction of the European Union. During the U.S. presidential election in 2016, we saw the full support of the nationalist and radical European parties of Donald Trump. After Trump won the last year's presidential election, he clearly and explicitly supported the Brexit and the UK leaving the EU. Even the president of the United States of America, indirectly, urged other European countries to follow Brexit as a model. The American president's approach led to anger and discontent among European officials. Even at the joint NATO meeting, tensions happened between U.S. and European authorities over this issue. However, Trump didn't retreat from its explicit positions in undermining the United Europe. In such a situation, the president's gesture of supporting the integration of Spain is nothing more than false pretense. Washington, in spite of its diplomatic and external positions, continues to pursue the issue of undermining the United Europe through the strengthening of separatist and radical movements. As noted above, the Spanish government has recently announced that Catalonia's independence will not be possible, but there will be more autonomy in the state (if agreed). What is certain is that many dissatisfied people in Catalonia support the second option, which is more autonomy, against independence from Spain. In any case, it seems that not only in 2017, but also in 2018, there will be disputes and bargains between the central government officials and members of the Catalan Parliament and other local authorities over how to determine the status of Catalonia. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.