Held at the Tabriz International Fairgrounds, the five-day event is hosting 440 Iranian and foreign companies. Simultaneous with the aforesaid exhibition, the 7th international exhibition of machineries and the 3rd international exhibition of steel industries, metallurgy, metal casting and relevant equipments were also opened in the same fairgrounds. The managing director of Tabriz International Fairgrounds said that the three exhibitions were held simultaneously because they were all related to the auto industries, auto spare part production and other machineries that are quite inseparable. Habib Mahuti also said that a number of well-known Iranian car producing companies including Iran Khodro, Saipa and Pars Khodro, as well as a number of foreign companies from Germany, Turkey, Austria, Belgium, Sweden, Canada, United Arab Emirates, Taiwan and China have participated in the exhibition. Elsewhere in his remarks, Mahuti underlined the fact that the pavilions of the foreign companies are not separated from that of the Iranian companies. He also added that different Iranian provinces including East and West Azarbaijans, Tehran, Khorasan Razavi, Isfahan, Ardebil, Mazandaran and Fars, have also participated in the exhibition. Mahuti said the objective behind holding such an exhibition was to improve the capabilities of the Iranian car makers and noted that domestic industries should be outfitted with modern equipments and facilities should be created for the exchange of expertise and most modern technologies. In conclusion, he said that participants in the fair will exhibit their latest achievements with regards to the production of different kinds of steel alloys, auto spare parts, cutting equipments, radiators, hydraulic joints, auto batteries, and some other industrial equipment.
                  Simultaneous with the aforesaid exhibition, the 7th international exhibition of machineries and the 3rd international exhibition of steel industries, metallurgy, metal casting and relevant equipments were also opened in the same fairgrounds. The managing director of Tabriz International Fairgrounds said that the three exhibitions were held simultaneously because they were all related to the auto industries, auto spare part production and other machineries that are quite inseparable. Habib Mahuti also said that a number of well-known Iranian car producing companies including Iran Khodro, Saipa and Pars Khodro, as well as a number of foreign companies from Germany, Turkey, Austria, Belgium, Sweden, Canada, United Arab Emirates, Taiwan and China have participated in the exhibition. Elsewhere in his remarks, Mahuti underlined the fact that the pavilions of the foreign companies are not separated from that of the Iranian companies. He also added that different Iranian provinces including East and West Azarbaijans, Tehran, Khorasan Razavi, Isfahan, Ardebil, Mazandaran and Fars, have also participated in the exhibition. Mahuti said the objective behind holding such an exhibition was to improve the capabilities of the Iranian car makers and noted that domestic industries should be outfitted with modern equipments and facilities should be created for the exchange of expertise and most modern technologies. In conclusion, he said that participants in the fair will exhibit their latest achievements with regards to the production of different kinds of steel alloys, auto spare parts, cutting equipments, radiators, hydraulic joints, auto batteries, and some other industrial equipment.
                  The managing director of Tabriz International Fairgrounds said that the three exhibitions were held simultaneously because they were all related to the auto industries, auto spare part production and other machineries that are quite inseparable. Habib Mahuti also said that a number of well-known Iranian car producing companies including Iran Khodro, Saipa and Pars Khodro, as well as a number of foreign companies from Germany, Turkey, Austria, Belgium, Sweden, Canada, United Arab Emirates, Taiwan and China have participated in the exhibition. Elsewhere in his remarks, Mahuti underlined the fact that the pavilions of the foreign companies are not separated from that of the Iranian companies. He also added that different Iranian provinces including East and West Azarbaijans, Tehran, Khorasan Razavi, Isfahan, Ardebil, Mazandaran and Fars, have also participated in the exhibition. Mahuti said the objective behind holding such an exhibition was to improve the capabilities of the Iranian car makers and noted that domestic industries should be outfitted with modern equipments and facilities should be created for the exchange of expertise and most modern technologies. In conclusion, he said that participants in the fair will exhibit their latest achievements with regards to the production of different kinds of steel alloys, auto spare parts, cutting equipments, radiators, hydraulic joints, auto batteries, and some other industrial equipment.
                  Habib Mahuti also said that a number of well-known Iranian car producing companies including Iran Khodro, Saipa and Pars Khodro, as well as a number of foreign companies from Germany, Turkey, Austria, Belgium, Sweden, Canada, United Arab Emirates, Taiwan and China have participated in the exhibition. Elsewhere in his remarks, Mahuti underlined the fact that the pavilions of the foreign companies are not separated from that of the Iranian companies. He also added that different Iranian provinces including East and West Azarbaijans, Tehran, Khorasan Razavi, Isfahan, Ardebil, Mazandaran and Fars, have also participated in the exhibition. Mahuti said the objective behind holding such an exhibition was to improve the capabilities of the Iranian car makers and noted that domestic industries should be outfitted with modern equipments and facilities should be created for the exchange of expertise and most modern technologies. In conclusion, he said that participants in the fair will exhibit their latest achievements with regards to the production of different kinds of steel alloys, auto spare parts, cutting equipments, radiators, hydraulic joints, auto batteries, and some other industrial equipment.
                  Elsewhere in his remarks, Mahuti underlined the fact that the pavilions of the foreign companies are not separated from that of the Iranian companies. He also added that different Iranian provinces including East and West Azarbaijans, Tehran, Khorasan Razavi, Isfahan, Ardebil, Mazandaran and Fars, have also participated in the exhibition. Mahuti said the objective behind holding such an exhibition was to improve the capabilities of the Iranian car makers and noted that domestic industries should be outfitted with modern equipments and facilities should be created for the exchange of expertise and most modern technologies. In conclusion, he said that participants in the fair will exhibit their latest achievements with regards to the production of different kinds of steel alloys, auto spare parts, cutting equipments, radiators, hydraulic joints, auto batteries, and some other industrial equipment.
                  He also added that different Iranian provinces including East and West Azarbaijans, Tehran, Khorasan Razavi, Isfahan, Ardebil, Mazandaran and Fars, have also participated in the exhibition. Mahuti said the objective behind holding such an exhibition was to improve the capabilities of the Iranian car makers and noted that domestic industries should be outfitted with modern equipments and facilities should be created for the exchange of expertise and most modern technologies. In conclusion, he said that participants in the fair will exhibit their latest achievements with regards to the production of different kinds of steel alloys, auto spare parts, cutting equipments, radiators, hydraulic joints, auto batteries, and some other industrial equipment.
                  Mahuti said the objective behind holding such an exhibition was to improve the capabilities of the Iranian car makers and noted that domestic industries should be outfitted with modern equipments and facilities should be created for the exchange of expertise and most modern technologies. In conclusion, he said that participants in the fair will exhibit their latest achievements with regards to the production of different kinds of steel alloys, auto spare parts, cutting equipments, radiators, hydraulic joints, auto batteries, and some other industrial equipment.
                  In conclusion, he said that participants in the fair will exhibit their latest achievements with regards to the production of different kinds of steel alloys, auto spare parts, cutting equipments, radiators, hydraulic joints, auto batteries, and some other industrial equipment.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.