TEHRAN - The Saudi-led coalition has launched an extensive operation to occupy the important and strategic port of Al-Hudaydah in Yemen. In this operation, the UAE plays a very important role. One of the goals of the country's participation in the three-year invasion on Yemen was for the sake of dominating the Yemeni ports in order to resolve its geopolitical weakness. But in the great battle of Al-Hudaydah, the United States, Britain and France, and even the Zionist regime are playing important roles besides Saudi Arabia. That is why the war has become a small world war. Despite a week has passed since the beginning of the battle, the Yemeni revolutionaries have succeeded in defending their land against the aggressors. A Brief Report of the First Week of the Battle in Al-Hudaydah On the first day of the war, an Emirati ship was destroyed by Ansarollah in the Red Sea. According to the reports, 100 foreign troops have been killed in the wake of the collapse of the Emirati ship in Yemen's harbor of Al-Hudaydah. The Sputnik News Agency reported the killing of 12 U.S. soldiers, eight Zionist soldiers, 50 Emirati soldiers and 30 Saudi soldiers in Al-Hudaydah battle, which the Saudi-led coalition tried to hide and censor for fear of the public reaction. On the other hand, the news sources close to the Yemeni fighters announced that they had detained two French Special Forces on the ground during the operation. Yemeni forces said that the coast guard of the harbor of Al-Hudaydah stopped a French radar boat and arrested its passengers. During the past few days, reports have been released of the presence of French forces in the recent operations of the Saudi-Emirati coalition in Yemen's harbor of Al-Hudaydah, which were denied by the French Defense Ministry. But Le Figaro confirmed in a report that French Special Forces were involved in the attack on the port of Al-Hudaydah. Ali al-Emad, a member of the Political Bureau of the Ansarollah Movement, said that the number of the coalition captives on the western coast of Yemen has reached 160. According to al-Emad, 160 mercenaries from the Allied coalition have been captured by the army and popular committees in the West Bank. Further, Al-Alam's news agency reported the death of Major General Engineer Isa Saif ibn Abulan al-Mazrouy, deputy head of the Joint Chiefs Staff of the UAE in the clashes on the Yemeni front in the province of Al-Hudaydah. The number of the coalition causalities have reached 253 in the past few days. Mohammed Abdul Salam, a spokesman for the Ansarollah movement, also emphasized that all the ways of supporting and assisting the aggressive forces in the attack on the Yemeni coast were closed and their blood was shed in ways that they would not have imagined. Little World War An important point about the battle of Al-Hudaydah is about the combination of the invaders. In this battle, Ansarollah, along with other revolutionary groups stands on one side and the five-country coalition stands on the other side. The United States, France and Britain are involved in this battle. This is while these countries have repeatedly called asked other regional players not to interfere. This is in spite of the fact that the United States has been involved in the killing of the people since the beginning of the Yemeni war and is now playing a significant role in the battle of Al-Hudaydah. The Guardian reported that the West is helping Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates by advising, guiding and sending military equipment to attack Yemen. The Guardian also wrote that although Britain warned against the attack on Al-Hudaydah, it is responsible for the catastrophe of the war; Saudi Arabia and the Emirates are waging this war with Western military training and advice, and they are taking steps in Yemen with the diplomatic support of the West. The Emiratis and Saudis carried out the attacks in Yemen with the help of American, British and French armies, and British and American military officers were in the command room for these air strikes, Guardian added. In fact, the Saudi coalition has not been able to achieve its goals in Yemen over the past three years and is now in such a weak position that it can't undertake any negotiation. Under the current circumstances, Al-Hudaydah has been chosen as a fait-determining battlefield. This is due to a number of reasons: firstly, the coastal area of Al-Hudaydah is an open plain, and unlike the northern provinces of Yemen, it's not mountainous and thus hard to attack. That's why the Saudi coalition believes that using this, it can easily occupy the Al-Hudaydah. On the other hand, all operations have failed to reach the city of Sanaa last year, and Saudi Arabia is trying to open another front to reach Sanaa. Another important point is that the Saudi coalition needs a periodic and limited victory for the persuasion of its soldiers. Therefore, under the current conditions of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, and with the help of the United States, France, Britain and the Zionist regime, they seek to occupy the Al-Hudaydah. It shouldn't be forgotten that even if the Al-Hudaydah is to be occupied by the Saudi coalition, it should not be expected to be a great victory for the aggressors on Yemen. However, although 70 percent of Yemen's food is provided from the harbor of Al-Hudaydah, and this port is actually the only way to connect Yemen to the outside world, but over the past few months, the Saudi coalition has prevented any food and medicine from entering Al-Hudaydah. Therefore, Al-Hudaydah has practically been to no use for Ansarollah in the past few months. Of course the Yemeni revolutionaries have been able to foil the enemy during the first week of the war. In the past three years, Ansarollah has repeatedly been tactically retreating in some areas but has quickly released occupied territories. Finally, we should say that Yemen is now the scene of a little world war in which five countries rally against the Yemeni people. This is while U.S. troops are fighting thousands of miles away from their homeland with the Yemeni people who defend their country. The irony is that the United States as the biggest contributor to regional tensions, has been repeatedly asking Iran not to make any roles in this regard. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.