TEHRAN- The UN General Assembly resolution concerning human rights in Iran, according to a spokesman for the Iranian Foreign Ministry, is "devoid of legitimacy," and the West is urged to quit abusing international institutions to achieve its political objectives. After a resolution titled "Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran" was adopted with 80 votes in favor, 29 votes against, and 65 abstentions, Nasser Kanaani made the remarks in a statement early on Friday. The resolution, which was proposed by Canada and was backed by European nations as well as the Israeli regime, "reflects the duplicity of its makers and is devoid of legitimacy," according to Kanaani. "Sponsors of this resolution's cynical policy of utilizing international organizations to put pressure on the Islamic Republic of Iran is a clear example of misusing lofty human rights principles and ideals to accomplish opportunistic political goals," he continued. The official maintained that this was a result of Western nations' attempts to continue their "psychological war" and "Iranophobia project" against the Islamic Republic. Iran is charged in the resolution with "systematic discrimination and other human rights breaches against women and girls" as well as the "disproportionate" use of the death sentence. Kanaani urged the sponsors of the resolution to stop supporting U.S. economic terrorism against Iran and hosting terrorist organizations rather than expressing "hypocritical" sympathy for the Iranian people over human rights issues, stating they had violated "all fundamental principles of human rights" in the world. Based on remarks made by Kanaani, upholding human rights is a religious and legal value in the Islamic Republic, and the government is "serious" about preserving its human rights obligations internationally. Kanaani also stated that Iran is prepared to engage in constructive dialogue and function properly with all legitimate international organizations and nations based on respect for one another and a commitment to non-discrimination to advance the status of human rights throughout the world. “U.S. political machinations will no longer beguile world” Iran has criticized U.S. officials for their "meddling" comments on domestic affairs in the country, asserting that the international community is well aware of America's poor record on human rights and would no longer be duped by its political pranks against Tehran. “Despite the hypocrisy and continuous lies of the American statesmen, the world public opinion is well aware of the black human rights record of this regime and will not be deceived by their rhetoric and political shows,” Kanaani highlighted in a statement on Thursday. "The American regime has always had a political, instrumental, and dual attitude toward the issue of human rights, which shows that the topic has had no actual influence on its policies and performance in the past or present," he emphasized. “Some of the world’s most tyrannical governments and regimes, including the apartheid Zionist regime, on whose paradoxical behavior in violation of human rights everyone is of the same opinion, are among those considered America’s strategic friends and allies,” he remarked. Kanaani declared that the most recent assertions made by U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan provided additional evidence of the U.S.'s interference in Iran’s domestic affairs and its support for the unrest in the country under the pretext of defending women's rights, human rights, and prisoners. In reaction to Iran's alleged "systematic persecution" of women and girls, Sullivan on Wednesday hailed as "historic" a UN resolution to exclude Iran from the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW). "Another example of the rising international agreement on Iran and demands for accountability," he claimed, referring to the vote. Kanaani drew attention to the U.S.'s misleading statements and the political nature of its human rights gesture, asserting that over the course of four decades of its "maximum pressure" and unilateral sanctions against the Islamic Republic, Washington failed to take into account the widespread effects of these limitations on the livelihood, health, and security of the Iranian people and “imposed cruel and, in their own words, crippling bans with no exception on all Iranian people, including children, women, girls and mothers.” “U.S. proposal to expel Iran out of CSW unjustified” The U.S.-led resolution that ended Iran's membership in the CSW lacks legitimacy, according to the Iran foreign ministry, which also accuses the action of being politically motivated and in violation of the UN Charter. Kanaani reacted on Wednesday when the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) endorsed a resolution proposed by the United States to "exclude the Islamic Republic of Iran from the Commission on the Status of Women for the remainder of its 2022-2026 term." The "U.S.-led non-consensus resolution," Kanaani sharply rebuked, contradicts the UN charter and set a terrible precedent. Following a draft proposal by the United States about what it claimed to be "policies detrimental to the rights of women and girls" in the country, Iran was expelled from the CSW. Kanaani characterized Washington's "malicious" campaign against the Islamic Republic as an effort to "impose its unilateral political demands" on the international community. The spokesperson referred to the decision as an instance of turning a blind eye to legitimate election procedures at international organizations and pointed out that, during the previous ten years, the commission had voted three times in support of Iran's participation in the UN body. He also referred to the U.S. as "the major offender of the Iranian people and women's rights" and cited Washington's protracted and widespread efforts to destabilize Iran. Since the Iranian Islamic Revolution in 1979, the U.S. has not refrained from acting hostilely toward the Iranian people and their interests, Kanaani said. "How come Washington suddenly pretends to defend the Iranian women's rights?" he wondered The official said despite Tel Aviv's "sordid history of systematic atrocities against the oppressed Palestinian people," it is ironic that the Israeli regime is still a member of the UN commission thanks to the backing of Washington and its allies. Kanaani went on to say that by portraying Iran negatively, the U.S. would be unable to cover up its record of breaching the rights of the Iranian people for decades, particularly women’s rights, through punitive sanctions on the Islamic Republic. He said over the past 40 years, the Islamic Republic has made enormous steps for empowerment of women. “It is clear that Iranian women will continue to progress and improve based on Iranian and Islamic principles from this point forward.” All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.