According to diplomatic sources, in the meeting Choi lauded the significant role that parliamentary friendship groups play in the expansion of bilateral ties, which was the focus of their talks. He expressed regret that Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi's scheduled visit to South Korea in March had been scrapped, saying his government is eagerly looking forward to a visit to take place at the earliest possible time. Pointing to the notable progress in Iran in the political, economic and cultural fields in recent years, the South Korean foreign minister expressed hope bilateral ties could be further strengthened on the threshold of the 40th anniversary of Tehran-Seoul ties. He lauded the participation of important Korean companies in various Iranian projects and called for enhancement of commerical cooperation. Hashemi, for his part, described the visit of the then South korean foreign minister to Iran last year as a "turning point in mutual ties" and highlighted their close cooperation in the Inter-parliamentary union (IPU) as well. Referring to the concept of "dialogue among civilizations" and "coalition for peace," he said central Asian countries can play an "effective" role in promoting these concepts. The two sides also explored ways of expanding bilateral relations in all arenas. The Iran-South Korea parliamentary delegation arrived in Seoul on Sunday to hold talks with senior South Korean officials on issues of mutual interest.
                  He expressed regret that Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi's scheduled visit to South Korea in March had been scrapped, saying his government is eagerly looking forward to a visit to take place at the earliest possible time. Pointing to the notable progress in Iran in the political, economic and cultural fields in recent years, the South Korean foreign minister expressed hope bilateral ties could be further strengthened on the threshold of the 40th anniversary of Tehran-Seoul ties. He lauded the participation of important Korean companies in various Iranian projects and called for enhancement of commerical cooperation. Hashemi, for his part, described the visit of the then South korean foreign minister to Iran last year as a "turning point in mutual ties" and highlighted their close cooperation in the Inter-parliamentary union (IPU) as well. Referring to the concept of "dialogue among civilizations" and "coalition for peace," he said central Asian countries can play an "effective" role in promoting these concepts. The two sides also explored ways of expanding bilateral relations in all arenas. The Iran-South Korea parliamentary delegation arrived in Seoul on Sunday to hold talks with senior South Korean officials on issues of mutual interest.
                  Pointing to the notable progress in Iran in the political, economic and cultural fields in recent years, the South Korean foreign minister expressed hope bilateral ties could be further strengthened on the threshold of the 40th anniversary of Tehran-Seoul ties. He lauded the participation of important Korean companies in various Iranian projects and called for enhancement of commerical cooperation. Hashemi, for his part, described the visit of the then South korean foreign minister to Iran last year as a "turning point in mutual ties" and highlighted their close cooperation in the Inter-parliamentary union (IPU) as well. Referring to the concept of "dialogue among civilizations" and "coalition for peace," he said central Asian countries can play an "effective" role in promoting these concepts. The two sides also explored ways of expanding bilateral relations in all arenas. The Iran-South Korea parliamentary delegation arrived in Seoul on Sunday to hold talks with senior South Korean officials on issues of mutual interest.
                  He lauded the participation of important Korean companies in various Iranian projects and called for enhancement of commerical cooperation. Hashemi, for his part, described the visit of the then South korean foreign minister to Iran last year as a "turning point in mutual ties" and highlighted their close cooperation in the Inter-parliamentary union (IPU) as well. Referring to the concept of "dialogue among civilizations" and "coalition for peace," he said central Asian countries can play an "effective" role in promoting these concepts. The two sides also explored ways of expanding bilateral relations in all arenas. The Iran-South Korea parliamentary delegation arrived in Seoul on Sunday to hold talks with senior South Korean officials on issues of mutual interest.
                  Hashemi, for his part, described the visit of the then South korean foreign minister to Iran last year as a "turning point in mutual ties" and highlighted their close cooperation in the Inter-parliamentary union (IPU) as well. Referring to the concept of "dialogue among civilizations" and "coalition for peace," he said central Asian countries can play an "effective" role in promoting these concepts. The two sides also explored ways of expanding bilateral relations in all arenas. The Iran-South Korea parliamentary delegation arrived in Seoul on Sunday to hold talks with senior South Korean officials on issues of mutual interest.
                  Referring to the concept of "dialogue among civilizations" and "coalition for peace," he said central Asian countries can play an "effective" role in promoting these concepts. The two sides also explored ways of expanding bilateral relations in all arenas. The Iran-South Korea parliamentary delegation arrived in Seoul on Sunday to hold talks with senior South Korean officials on issues of mutual interest.
                  The two sides also explored ways of expanding bilateral relations in all arenas. The Iran-South Korea parliamentary delegation arrived in Seoul on Sunday to hold talks with senior South Korean officials on issues of mutual interest.
                  The Iran-South Korea parliamentary delegation arrived in Seoul on Sunday to hold talks with senior South Korean officials on issues of mutual interest.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.