Imam Khomeini Hosseiniyah on Wednesday hosted an exhibition of defense industry achievements of the Iranian Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics. For more than two hours, Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei visited the exhibition which showcased sophisticated, homegrown and knowledge-based technologies which are all product of efforts, initiatives and knowledge of Iranian researchers and specialists and would directly help enhance the combat capabilities of Iranian Armed Forces.   In this exhibition, achievements in the field of designing and manufacturing a variety of advanced systems and equipment pertaining to missile, radar, marine, optic, armor, drone and communications have been put on display. A report on the capabilities and development of short-range, medium-range and long-range missile defense systems was the first section of this exhibition. Another booth visited by Ayatollah Khamenei, who is also commander-in-chief of the Iranian Armed Forces, showcased advanced sonars of surface vessels that have been designed and manufactured by Ministry of Defense experts.    Radar systems used for "watching, tracking, hunting and electro-optical fire control" were in another booth. In this section, Ministry of Defense officials presented a report on the radar section of domestically-manufactured Bavar 373 defense system, which is more advanced than its foreign-made prototypes.    The "indigenized operating system of Armed Forces", "national safe and anti-malware computer", "safe long-range and digital communications", "satellite advances", "advanced electronic war equipment" and "shoulder-launched missiles" were among other achievements whose report was read out to the Leader of the Islamic Revolution.  
In other booths of the exhibition, technological achievements by Iranian specialists for "boosting the precision and pinpointing capabilities of ballistic missiles" were reported. After that, Ayatollah Khamenei, who was addressing officials, researchers and experts of the Ministry of Defense, said enhancing the "defensive and offensive" capabilities of the country was the obvious and undeniable right of the country. 
Stressing the need for the continuation of defense capability upgrade, the Leader of the Islamic Revolution said: "In a world where 'bullying and hegemonic' powers devoid of the slightest essence of moralities, conscience and humanity are ruling and do not shy away from invading countries and killing innocent people, development of defensive and offensive industries is totally natural because as long as these countries do not feel the country's  [our] authority, [our] security will not be guaranteed." Ayatollah Khamenei described his visit to the exhibition of defense industry achievements as pleasant and pleasing, adding: "In addition to visiting defense capabilities which are instrumental in upgrading the level of the country's might, the reason behind this sense of pleasure is the meeting with faithful well-educated forces and researchers indulged in thought and action. That is very pleasing and satisfying."   "The existence of such forces and elements in the country's defense industries is like a very precious gem which is priceless," said the Leader of the Islamic Revolution.   Ayatollah Khamenei went on to elucidate the reasons behind the necessity for upgrading and enhancing the defense industries, saying: “Under conditions when world bullying powers have spread their umbrella of force and no mercy is seen in them as they openly attack wedding ceremonies and hospitals under the pretext of fighting terrorism, killing hundreds of innocent people without being accountable to any [international] organization or body, [Iran's] defense capability and power must be upgraded so that bullying powers would feel threatened." "Of course, we set certain restrictions to the expansion of [our] defense industries. Weapons of mass destruction like chemical weapons and nuclear arms are proscribed based on [our] religious and ideological fundamentals," said the Leader of the Islamic Revolution. 
 
"The ban on chemical weapons pertains to the offensive sector, but upgrading the defensive capabilities against chemical attacks is authorized," added Ayatollah Khamenei. The Leader of the Islamic Revolution said: "Except for these restrictions, there are no limits in other sectors for increasing the defense and military capabilities and progress in these domains is an obligation."  Referring to the Islamic Republic of Iran's strategic position and the sensitive status of the West Asia region and hegemonic powers' undying covetous eye on this region, Ayatollah Khamenei said: "In order to guarantee the security of the nation, the country and the future, we must boost the offensive capability in addition to the defensive one."  The Leader of the Islamic Revolution highlighted the anxiety of some hegemonic powers over Iran's purchase of defense equipment from certain countries, adding: "These countries that claim to advocate wisdom and fairness and speak about the moral competence of nations for enjoying or not enjoying certain defense equipment are committed to no moral principles."  Ayatollah Khamenei said the US government was not morally competent to express itself about the Islamic Republic of Iran, adding: "Neither the party whose administration is in power in the US today, nor the rival one which held the previous administration are morally qualified, because both parties have committed a variety of crimes and [caused] mishaps."    The Leader of the Islamic Revolution said the biggest sin blamed on the party supporting the incumbent US administration was the "creation of dangerous terrorist networks", noting: "The current US administration pretends to strike a terrorist group while exempting another. That means the dominance of politics over moralities."  "The former US administration is also responsible for catastrophes [caused] and crimes committed in Iraq and Afghanistan, in which millions of innocent humans were killed and even thousands of Iraqi scientists were identified by the murderous 'Blackwater' group and assassinated," said Ayatollah Khamenei.  "Therefore, neither of the main two US parties is legally more qualified than the other one," noted the Leader of the Islamic Revolution. 
"We are facing such administrations in the US and it would be wrong to imagine that we can reach understanding and common points through negotiations [with them]," added Ayatollah Khamenei.  "My insistence on the necessity of not negotiating with the US is for this very reason. Experience has shown that in negotiations, the Americans look for imposing their demands instead of seeking understanding. The recent issues are a case in point," Ayatollah Khamenei said.  In another part of his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei heaped praise on the Ministry of Defense as well as researchers and experts from different organizations affiliated with the Armed Forces. Ayatollah Khamenei added: "One of the outstanding features of progress in the country's defense industries is communications between the defense sector and universities and knowledge-based companies."  Ayatollah Khamenei reiterated his own earlier remarks about the necessity for Iranian administrations to facilitate cooperation between industries and universities, saying: "Such cooperation will benefit both sides and we are witnessing a clear example of that at the Ministry of Defense now." The Leader of the Islamic Revolution said these instances of progress were the result of the country's massive scientific drive over the past 12 years, noting: "Software movement and scientific drive which have turned into a 'public discourse' now and have helped our young scientists break through boundaries of science must continue in full force because progress in any sector would prepare the ground for new progress in other sectors."  Prior to Ayatollah Khamenei's remarks, Minister of Defense Brig. Gen. Hossein Dehqan presented a brief report on the activities carried out in defense industries, creation of a network of those cooperating with the Defense Ministry and cohesive communications between the defense industry and universities and knowledge-based companies, saying: "Today, the country's defense industry – enjoying industrial and knowledge-based infrastructure – is capable of meeting the Armed Forces' needs."  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.