A number of the nation’s senior officials including Nurollah Rezaii-Niaraki, chairman of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization (CAO) attended the third international air show called Persian Gulf Air Show 2006. Iran's Civil Aviation Organization is currently conducting 56 aviation related projects, Rezaii-Niaraki said in his remarks during the opening of the show. He explained that the projects included manufacturing heavy and light aircraft and helicopters, production of paint, brakes, glass and windshields, tiers and chemicals used in the aviation field, the Persian service of ISNA reported. A number of domestic and foreign companies, organizations and institutes in the sectors related to the aerospace, aircraft building, aviation, air navigation, in-flight communication, air transportation, airlines, airport equipments and services, quality control and, research and training showcase their products and services during the event held in the nation’s Persian Gulf tourist resort. The air show is providing a suitable venue for participants and visitors to meet with their potential counterparts to discuss their subjects of interests and explore business opportunities. The exhibition and show encompass indoor and outdoor spaces each around 14000 square meters. The aircraft static display area of the show extends 100,000 square meters to offer ample space for different acrobatic air shows of various aircraft, helicopters, paramotors, balloons, kites and other light aircrafts. In the past years, Iran has conducted the first and the second international air shows in the same venue. The Persian Gulf Air Show 2006 (also called Kish Air Show 2006) will run until December 1, 2006.
                  Iran's Civil Aviation Organization is currently conducting 56 aviation related projects, Rezaii-Niaraki said in his remarks during the opening of the show. He explained that the projects included manufacturing heavy and light aircraft and helicopters, production of paint, brakes, glass and windshields, tiers and chemicals used in the aviation field, the Persian service of ISNA reported. A number of domestic and foreign companies, organizations and institutes in the sectors related to the aerospace, aircraft building, aviation, air navigation, in-flight communication, air transportation, airlines, airport equipments and services, quality control and, research and training showcase their products and services during the event held in the nation’s Persian Gulf tourist resort. The air show is providing a suitable venue for participants and visitors to meet with their potential counterparts to discuss their subjects of interests and explore business opportunities. The exhibition and show encompass indoor and outdoor spaces each around 14000 square meters. The aircraft static display area of the show extends 100,000 square meters to offer ample space for different acrobatic air shows of various aircraft, helicopters, paramotors, balloons, kites and other light aircrafts. In the past years, Iran has conducted the first and the second international air shows in the same venue. The Persian Gulf Air Show 2006 (also called Kish Air Show 2006) will run until December 1, 2006.
                  A number of domestic and foreign companies, organizations and institutes in the sectors related to the aerospace, aircraft building, aviation, air navigation, in-flight communication, air transportation, airlines, airport equipments and services, quality control and, research and training showcase their products and services during the event held in the nation’s Persian Gulf tourist resort. The air show is providing a suitable venue for participants and visitors to meet with their potential counterparts to discuss their subjects of interests and explore business opportunities. The exhibition and show encompass indoor and outdoor spaces each around 14000 square meters. The aircraft static display area of the show extends 100,000 square meters to offer ample space for different acrobatic air shows of various aircraft, helicopters, paramotors, balloons, kites and other light aircrafts. In the past years, Iran has conducted the first and the second international air shows in the same venue. The Persian Gulf Air Show 2006 (also called Kish Air Show 2006) will run until December 1, 2006.
                  The air show is providing a suitable venue for participants and visitors to meet with their potential counterparts to discuss their subjects of interests and explore business opportunities. The exhibition and show encompass indoor and outdoor spaces each around 14000 square meters. The aircraft static display area of the show extends 100,000 square meters to offer ample space for different acrobatic air shows of various aircraft, helicopters, paramotors, balloons, kites and other light aircrafts. In the past years, Iran has conducted the first and the second international air shows in the same venue. The Persian Gulf Air Show 2006 (also called Kish Air Show 2006) will run until December 1, 2006.
                  The exhibition and show encompass indoor and outdoor spaces each around 14000 square meters. The aircraft static display area of the show extends 100,000 square meters to offer ample space for different acrobatic air shows of various aircraft, helicopters, paramotors, balloons, kites and other light aircrafts. In the past years, Iran has conducted the first and the second international air shows in the same venue. The Persian Gulf Air Show 2006 (also called Kish Air Show 2006) will run until December 1, 2006.
                  In the past years, Iran has conducted the first and the second international air shows in the same venue. The Persian Gulf Air Show 2006 (also called Kish Air Show 2006) will run until December 1, 2006.
                  The Persian Gulf Air Show 2006 (also called Kish Air Show 2006) will run until December 1, 2006.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.