TEHRAN - Robert David Steele, a former Marine Corps infantry officer and CIA spy who was recommended for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2017, regularly answers questions for Tehran Times. Q. You published an article, “Is Ilhan Omar Cynthia McKinney 2.0?: Will the Zionist Parasite Be Purged from the USA This Time?” in the American Herald Tribune on 18 February 2019. Since  then Representative Ilhan Omar has continued to speak out against Zionist control of the US Congress and she is now being attacked in two ways: with posters and statements connecting her to the 9/11 attack, and with some Members of Congress against accusing her of being anti-Semitic and even “vile.”  How do you react to this? A. Plainly speaking, everyone attacking Representative Omar is an unregistered agent of a foreign power – this is a criminal offense in the US but the law is not enforced against Members of Congress, almost all of whom are being bribed and/or blackmailed by the Zionists, or the media.  Two articles on this matter, one by Politico and one by USA Today, merit reading – they both appear to have been written by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) and immediately published by these servile unregistered agents of a foreign power – Zionist Israel. Andrew Desiderio, “Top Foreign Affairs Dem rebukes Ilhan Omar for ‘vile anti-Semitic slur’,” Politico, 1 March 2019 William Cummings, “House committee chair calls for Rep. Ilhan Omar to apologize for 'vile, anti-Semitic slur',” USA Today, 3 March 2019 Q. It is very unusual for any public figure in the USA to speak out so directly on Zionist control of the US economy, US government, and US society. Is there some personal experience that led to you being the foremost voice against Zionist control of the US Congress? A. I am very glad you asked that question, because it allows me to make two points.  First, I have been, like most Americans, “unconscious” about the degree to which Zionists – not to be confused with Jews – control everything in the USA. It was not until I was personally attacked by Zionists when I founded #UNRIG, the movement for integrated election reform, that I realized the full extent of their power to destroy anyone that challenges them as Representative Ilhan Omar is so bravely and truthfully doing.  I tell that story in “How The Deep State Controls Social Media and Digitally Assassinates Critics: #GoogleGestapo – Censorship & Crowd-Stalking Made Easy,” as published in the American Herald Tribune on 7 November 2017.  Here I will just list the six ways in ninety days that the Zionists used to destroy a public educational endeavor, generally working through the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), which serves as the Zionist secret police and censor in the USA. 1. Live-Streamed Video Defamation 2. Troll Armies 3. Media “Hit Job” 4. MeetUp Cancellation of $77,000 Paid Program 5. Denial of Service Attacks on My Websites 6. False Reports to Service Providers of Pornography on My Websites Put bluntly, it was the attacks on me by the Zionists that turned me into the most vocal critic of the Zionists in the USA, overnight.  I am also the person who has single-handedly forced into the mainstream the distinction between Zionism – the evil that is genocide and apartheid and the mafia state of Israel – and Judaism, the religion that is to be respected. In the past the Zionists have relied heavily on playing the holocaust victim card, and pretending that legitimate criticism of Zionist evil is an anti-Semitic attack against the Jewish faith. They are not the same and everyone in the USA understands the difference now. This also led to my close observation of how the Zionists used their control of Amazon to ban books, and of Facebook, Google, Twitter, and YouTube to censor, manipulate, and digitally assassinate voices who question the official narrative. They also fund #RESIST, the seditionist movement against our President. Q. You make the claim that Jews themselves are repudiating Zionism. Are there any specific Jewish statements or publications that support your claim? A. There are so many it would be unwieldy to list them all.  Here I will provide just three linked articles, and one photograph. Marjorie Cohn, “The Progressive Except Palestine Problem,” Consortium News reprinted from TruthOut, 6 February 2019 Mira Sucharov, “BDS Blacklist: Sadly, Now Might Be the Time for Jews to Boycott Israel,” Ha’aretz, 7 January 2018 Henry Siegman, “The Implications of President Trump’s Jerusalem Ploy,” The National Interest as reprinted in US Middle East Project, 23 January 2018 and a photo that speaks 10,000 words Q. You have published an Open Letter to the author of one of the media article against Ilhan Omar, in which you make seven points related to the end of Zionism in America.  Can you summarize them for us? A. I would be glad to do this.  The original open letter with many photographs and links is at this link.  Let me start with the general observation that everyone in the USA who is claiming that anti-Zionism – opposition to the genocidal, apartheid, mafia state of Israel, which also a leading sponsor of terrorism as well as rendition & torture as a service for dictators – is anti-Semitism, is an unregistered agent of a foreign power. Each of them should be investigated, indicted, and convicted for treason, starting with Senator Chuck Schumer, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and the most recent violator, Representative Eliot Engel.  Here are the seven points in brief: 01 9/11 Disclosure is a Done Deal. The Zionists will be held accountable before 2020. Memoranda for the President: 9/11 Truth, has gone viral, millions have read it. 02 The “anti-Semitic” defense is done with. There is an excellent video showing former Israeli Minister Shulamit Aloni saying outright: “it’s a trick we always use it.” This trick is no longer working. 03 Big money is going to go after US politicians voting for Israel First. A bill board costs about $3,000 a month. I know a billionaire who is thinking about placing the below image, personalized for each Senator or Representative that voted for the anti-boycott bill, across the country in June, in time to pressure President Trump to denounce the Zionists at his 4th of July celebration – either he is for America First or Israel First, he cannot have it both ways.  04 Jeffrey Epstein is back in court. I believe that this time he and Ghislaine Maxwell, the daughter of Robert Maxwell, the famous secret agent for Israel who compromised many US computer systems, will be found to be agents of a foreign power and be convicted of human trafficking and blackmail. 05 AIPAC is done. I am anticipating a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act investigation of AIPAC, to include a comprehensive data mining project across all emails and telephone calls stored in the National Security Agency (NSA) database. This will among other things lead to the termination of non-profit status for the thousands of fronts that AIPAC uses to collect and launder money for illicit purposes. 06 ADL is done. I am anticipating a class action federal lawsuit against Amazon, Facebook, Google, MeetUp, Twitter, and YouTube, such that the role of the ADL as the common censor assassinating conservative voices while waiving fees and “up-voting” anti-Trump #RESIST and related seditious elements, is fully exposed. 07 Sheldon Adelson and dual-citizens are done. Almost ten percent of our Members of Congress and ten percent of our senior government employees – particularly in the national security domain – are dual US and Israeli citizens. Dual citizenship is a direct violation of the Constitutional oath to have no other loyalties, and all dual citizens should have their security clearances stripped.  I anticipate Jared Kushner and Eliot Abrams losing their clearances in the near future. Q. What will become of Representative Ilhan Omar, a Muslim who dares to speak truth to power? A. This is the central question facing the USA as we prepare for the 2020 elections. Cynthia McKinney was able to defeat the Zionists six times – she served six terms in face of enormous hate crimes and financial crimes against her by the Zionists. Ilhan Omar is much weaker than Cynthia McKinney in that her “base” is much smaller – we have more blacks than Muslims. However, the times have changed. If – and I stress this – IF Ilhan Omar stands steady and does not allow herself to be intimidated; and IF our President cleans house by firing Jared Kushner and John Bolton and Eliot Abrams and distancing himself from Sheldon Adelson, THEN the President can gain the respect and votes of all those in America who despise the pernicious influence of Zionism on the economy (insider trading using cyber-espionage), the government (treating war as a profit center) and the society (normalizing pedophilia and using bribery and blackmail to subvert family values and cultural cohesion, THEN Ilhan Omar is a future Speaker of the House and an icon for a mature America that assimilates and honors its immigrants. I will say here and now that I believe Ilhan Omar to be naïve and her staff to be penetrated by AIPAC. At least of the people working for her, if not more, have some kind of financial relationship with AIPAC or are being bribed or blackmailed by the Mossad perhaps via false flag channels. Anyone who tells her to apologize and stop speaking the truth is in my judgment an undeclared agent of a foreign power and she should refer them to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for examination. Certainly she should not be employing anyone who is an apologist for Zionist Israel and its undeclared agents in the USA. Q. A survey of videos and social media finds increasing mention of you as a candidate for President. Your own post, “Robert Steele: Plan B – 2020 No Trump? UPDATE 1: Trump Defense,” at Phi Beta Iota Public Intelligence Blog, on 28 February 2019, presents a comprehensive approach to being a good President. Will you run in 2020 or 2024? A. Although I have been and will continue to be critical of President Trump with respect to the areas where he is failing, I am absolutely committed to his re-election. While I ran briefly for President in 2012 and could well run in 2024, President Trump is a unique individual and singularly capable of doing the three things I want done: election reform, a truth channel, and putting all traitors, pedophiles, and white collar criminals in jail.  He did not expect to win in 2016 and Jared Kushner destroyed our President’s first two years by throwing the twelve volumes of transition team planning into the trash in order to pursue an Israel First campaign. As long as the President permits Zionists including Kushner, John Bolton, and Eliot Abrams to serve in the US Government he will be at risk of losing in 2020. Your readers can learn more by reading your earlier interview with me, “Understanding Donald Trump and the White House: A few books,” as published in Tehran Times on 13 February 2019, I make it quite clear in the post to which you kindly refer that I support our President and I want to see him run and be re-elected. There is no other person in America, least of all myself, who is as prepared – and as well funded, as is our President. He is our Savior in this time and place – in sharp contrast to the False Messiah that the Zionists are about to celebrate as they advance their takeover of Jerusalem. The Zionists are the ball and chain around our President’s neck. Because he did not expect to win – a story I tell in Donald Trump, The Accidental President: Under Siege! and because he was deeply afraid of being assassinated after the fact, he appointed too many traitors beholden to the Zionists and the Deep State – and too many losers.  I have been quite clear in my Memorandum for the President: Trump Triumph; he needs to clean out the White House, create a Trump Studio and truth channel, implement election reform, and eliminate the National Security Council, replacing it with a much smaller Strategy Advisory  Group. If he does those three things he will easily be re-elected and easily be the greatest President in modern American history. If President Trump fails to implement #UNRIG: Unity for Integrity Election Reform Act (Proposed), then yes, I will run in 2024 with a coalition team including comedian impersonators, a campaign that will rock the Republic and bury the Deep State.  I want our President to finish the job with a second term; if he will not, then God Bless him for setting the stage for the rise of American populism, We the People will finish the job. America First means not Israel first.  Not Saudi Arabia or Qatar First.  America First. Such an America will eschew foreign adventures desired only by the banks and the Zionists, and it will focus – as the Chinese and Russians and Indians have focused – on doing business.  We will have a foreign policy, as Ron Paul puts it, of peace, commerce, and friendship. To get there, we must eradicate the Zionist pest from our homeland. Allow me to end with an image and a quote. The image is from Donald Trump’s recent appearance before the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC). This one image, in my view, virtually assures that our President will be re-elected in 2020 but only by a slim margin. His victory will be greater if he does 9/11 disclosure, arrests the Zionist traitors among us, and commits to never again letting Zionist Israel determine US policy. Here is the quote, from Jack Welch, legendary leader of General Electric, as it appeared in a new book: “They can say what they want about him, but I don’t know if any president has been more prepared to sit in that room and talk business. It was like talking to a peer, not a politician. Hell of a meeting.” Ilhan Omar is the symbol of the conflict we have in America today, between our Constitution and its values, and the reality of a Deep State and Shadow Government in which the Zionists are the enforcers and violators of everything we hold dear.  I support our President, and I support Ilhan Omar. Each in their own way embodies all this is good within America the Beautiful. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.