TEHRAN-- The state-run Iran newspaper highly complimented the Iran-China friendship and wrote that minor issues cannot harm the will of the leaders of Iran and China to develop relations.  “The relations between China and Iran have been friendly in the course of centuries and it is a common choice to consolidate and develop their comprehensive strategic partnership. The Chinese side is willing to strengthen communication and coordination with the Iranian side to continue and promote new progress in bilateral relations. A large economic delegation consisting of dozens of Chinese businessmen traveled to Tehran together with the vice premier, which conveys the message that the Chinese side is fully aware of the importance of Iran in the West Asian region. This development of cooperation in the context of Western sanctions has angered America, European countries and their regional allies,” the Iran publication reported. This is while Arman-e Melli wrote that an agreement was signed between Saudi Arabia and China, which many considered as the political-economic separation of China and Iran. “The relationship between Riyadh and Beijing was already noticeable as the engine of China's economic growth has slowed down in recent years, and this country needs new investments in different parts of the world, and although the recent protests in China have sounded the alarm for the Chinese leaders. However, the Chinese are not unwilling to use their relationship with the countries on the southern shores of the Persian Gulf as a sword over Iran’s head and convey a sense of insecurity and thus increase their bargaining power with Tehran,” Farzin Rahimi Zenouz, an economic expert, told Arman-e Melli. Arman-e Emrooz: British game with American cards Arman-e Emrooz addressed pointed to British Foreign Secretary James Cleverley’s remarks against Iran. “Despite the fact that England is not as powerful as it was before when it highly influenced developing countries, it still maintains that policy by relying on a ‘leverage’ called the United States. The British Foreign Minister said today (Monday) that the London government will respond to what he called ‘unacceptable’ actions of Iran with sanctions. James Cleverley, whose government has recently imposed new human rights sanctions against Iran, said that ‘our priority is to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, but in parallel to that we will continue to act, to respond when Iran's actions are unacceptable.’  He further said ‘we've sanctioned those involved with the brutal suppression of protesters in Iran and we will continue to try and steer Iran into a better direction.’ “According to the British colonialism record in Iran, which started from the Qajar era, we must say that they use any means to influence Iran and now they have come to limit Iran with the excuse of human rights and then get concession,” Arman-e Emrooz quoted Hassan Hanizadeh, an analyst on international issues, as saying. Hanizadeh added Britain has been able to achieve limited success with the U.S. support.  Despite exerting influence through Farsi-language networks, it seems farfetched for Britain to regain its previous status in the Middle East, he noted. Hamshahri: Sanctions in return for sanctions  Iran’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs put 9 institutions and 23 British and European Union figures on the sanctions list, the Hamshahri newspaper said. “In late November, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced in a statement that it has placed 10 American individuals and 4 organizations on its sanctions list. Now, Tehran announces the imposition of new sanctions against England and the European Union, which is considered as the Islamic Republic’s response to extensive pressure from some Western governments. The European Union still intends to continue exerting pressure on the Islamic Republic under the pretexts of recent incidents in Iran, the Ukraine war and human rights issues. It was on this basis that the European Union foreign policy chief announced in recent days that the (EU) member states will agree to a severe sanctions package against Iran. Josep Borrell announced more sanctions against Tehran under the allegations of human rights violations and arms shipment to Russia, while the European Union has imposed various sanctions against Iran in recent months. The Islamic Republic’s sanctions against England and the European Union includes visa travel bans and confiscation of their property and assets in the territory under the jurisdiction of the Islamic Republic.   Etemad: Society not feeling well  In an interview with the Etemad newspaper, political activist Mohammad Javad Haqshanas discussed the state of society these days and said the future prospects depend on the understanding of the rulers of the necessity of change and giving in to it. “The feeling of all people, whether religious or non-religious, is to achieve ‘good feeling and peace’. But I am sorry to say that women, men, youths, elites and all Iranian citizens are in a situation where good times have turned into a distant dream for them. On the other side of the story, a government that cannot inject this good feeling into the society has not achieved anything positive.  Factors such as growth, development, welfare, citizenship rights, right to expression, right to freedom, right to choice, etc., are all things that make a good mood. When a society has the capacity to create a good mood for its people, but cannot due to inefficiency, discrimination, corruption, extremism, it has the highest level of deprivation. Unfortunately, there is no sign of improvement either in terms of dialogue or modification and change. Officials indicate in private that they are willing to change and improve, but in practice no sign of improvement is observed. The media are still in the hands of people and movements that have only tried to create hatred, anger and dissatisfaction among the people all through these years. Iranian policymakers should not behave in such a way that there is no other choice but harsh and violent behavior. A reasonable ground should be provided for the youth,” Haqshanas explained. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.