In a statement issued late Thursday after its delegation completed a visit to the country, the IMF said Zambia's monetary expansion had been faster than previously projected. "Inflation, at eight per cent, is at its lowest point in three decades," said the head of the IMF mission Francisco Caramazza. "The renaissance of the copper sector and extensive debt relief have remarkedly strengthened the economy's prospects," he said. Under the terms of an IMF debt relief programme, Zambia earlier this year saw 3.8 billion of the 7.1 billion dollars it owed international creditors cancelled. Zambia has attained positive real gross domestic product (GDP) of five percent in the last three consecutive years, which the IMF said was very impressive for the country. "This is expected to rise to six percent this year, mainly due to significant expansion in the mining and construction sectors and a strong recovery in agriculture," the statement said. Zambia's President Levy Mwanawasa, who was re-elected for the second and final term five weeks ago, has won praise from the international community for introducing fiscal discipline in government and reduced corruption.
                  "Inflation, at eight per cent, is at its lowest point in three decades," said the head of the IMF mission Francisco Caramazza. "The renaissance of the copper sector and extensive debt relief have remarkedly strengthened the economy's prospects," he said. Under the terms of an IMF debt relief programme, Zambia earlier this year saw 3.8 billion of the 7.1 billion dollars it owed international creditors cancelled. Zambia has attained positive real gross domestic product (GDP) of five percent in the last three consecutive years, which the IMF said was very impressive for the country. "This is expected to rise to six percent this year, mainly due to significant expansion in the mining and construction sectors and a strong recovery in agriculture," the statement said. Zambia's President Levy Mwanawasa, who was re-elected for the second and final term five weeks ago, has won praise from the international community for introducing fiscal discipline in government and reduced corruption.
                  "The renaissance of the copper sector and extensive debt relief have remarkedly strengthened the economy's prospects," he said. Under the terms of an IMF debt relief programme, Zambia earlier this year saw 3.8 billion of the 7.1 billion dollars it owed international creditors cancelled. Zambia has attained positive real gross domestic product (GDP) of five percent in the last three consecutive years, which the IMF said was very impressive for the country. "This is expected to rise to six percent this year, mainly due to significant expansion in the mining and construction sectors and a strong recovery in agriculture," the statement said. Zambia's President Levy Mwanawasa, who was re-elected for the second and final term five weeks ago, has won praise from the international community for introducing fiscal discipline in government and reduced corruption.
                  Under the terms of an IMF debt relief programme, Zambia earlier this year saw 3.8 billion of the 7.1 billion dollars it owed international creditors cancelled. Zambia has attained positive real gross domestic product (GDP) of five percent in the last three consecutive years, which the IMF said was very impressive for the country. "This is expected to rise to six percent this year, mainly due to significant expansion in the mining and construction sectors and a strong recovery in agriculture," the statement said. Zambia's President Levy Mwanawasa, who was re-elected for the second and final term five weeks ago, has won praise from the international community for introducing fiscal discipline in government and reduced corruption.
                  Zambia has attained positive real gross domestic product (GDP) of five percent in the last three consecutive years, which the IMF said was very impressive for the country. "This is expected to rise to six percent this year, mainly due to significant expansion in the mining and construction sectors and a strong recovery in agriculture," the statement said. Zambia's President Levy Mwanawasa, who was re-elected for the second and final term five weeks ago, has won praise from the international community for introducing fiscal discipline in government and reduced corruption.
                  "This is expected to rise to six percent this year, mainly due to significant expansion in the mining and construction sectors and a strong recovery in agriculture," the statement said. Zambia's President Levy Mwanawasa, who was re-elected for the second and final term five weeks ago, has won praise from the international community for introducing fiscal discipline in government and reduced corruption.
                  Zambia's President Levy Mwanawasa, who was re-elected for the second and final term five weeks ago, has won praise from the international community for introducing fiscal discipline in government and reduced corruption.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.