TEHRAN - Democrat and Republican rivalry in the Senate of America has intensified. Republicans accused Democrat senators of closing the Trump government. This is while the majority of the U.S. Senate is in the hands of the Republicans. Therefore, some Republicans have been involved with the Democrats in this regard.  In the last two days, the name of Senator Chuck Schumer has been widely heard in the U.S. media and political space. He is the Senate Democrat leader. However, Schumer believes that the closure of the federal government is just one culpable guy, and that is U.S. President Donald Trump.  As New York Times reported, President Trump and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the top Democrat in the Senate, came close to an agreement to avert a government shutdown over lunch on Friday. But their consensus broke down later in the day when the president and his chief of staff demanded more concessions on immigration, according to people on both sides familiar with the lunch and follow-up calls between Trump and Schumer.  The negotiations between Trump and Schumer, fellow New Yorkers who have known each other for years, began when the president called Schumer on Friday morning, giving the White House staff almost no heads-up. In a lengthy phone conversation, both men agreed to seek a permanent spending deal rather than the stopgap measure being negotiated by lawmakers on Capitol Hill. Less than an hour later, Schumer was meeting with Trump over cheeseburgers in the president’s study next to the Oval Office. The White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, was there, as was Schumer’s chief of staff, Mike Lynch.  As the meal progressed, an outline of an agreement was struck, according to one person familiar with the discussion: Schumer said yes to higher levels for military spending and discussed the possibility of fully funding the president’s wall on the southern border with Mexico. In exchange, the president agreed to support legalizing young immigrants who were brought to the United States as children.  New York Times continues: Schumer left the White House believing he had persuaded the president to support a short, three to four-day spending extension to finalize an agreement, which would also include disaster funding and health care measures.  “In my heart, I thought we might have a deal tonight,” Schumer recalled later on the Senate floor, shortly after the government officially shut down at midnight. At 11:55 p.m., he had been greeted with a blistering White House statement that “Senate Democrats own the Schumer Shutdown.”
Trump, a onetime real estate mogul whose book “The Art of the Deal” proclaimed his mastery of negotiation, has struggled at times to seal deals as president. He inserted himself into health care negotiations last March, only to see talks in the House collapse. In September, a deal-making dinner with “Chuck and Nancy” — Mr. Schumer and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader — later devolved into angry recriminations. And he has so far failed to bring his promised trade talks to a close.  On Friday afternoon, when Schumer was back on Capitol Hill, Trump called Schumer, a person familiar with the call said, and told him that he understood they had agreed on a three-week spending deal, not three or four days. Schumer told the president, the person said, that Democrats would oppose a three-week measure because they saw it as a delaying tactic. A White House official said that Schumer raised the possibility of a one- or two-day extension, but Trump told Schumer to work out the details of a short-term measure with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader.  A short time later, Schumer called the president, the person said, but the conversation drove the pair even further apart. The immigration concessions from Democrats were not conservative enough, Trump told Schumer. The president said he needed more border security measures as well as more enforcement of illegal immigration in parts of the country far from the border. As the evening wore on, Schumer got a call from Mr. Kelly that dashed all hopes for a Trump-Schumer deal before the shutdown deadline of midnight. Kelly, a hard-liner on immigration, the person familiar with the call said, outlined a long list of White House objections to the deal.  A White House official familiar with the call said Kelly urged Schumer to work out the details of an agreement with McConnell. In a Twitter post at 9:28 p.m., Trump vented his pessimism on Twitter, returning to his administration’s efforts to try to make sure that Democrats receive the blame from voters angry about a government shutdown exactly one year from his inauguration.  “Not looking good for our great Military or Safety & Security on the very dangerous Southern Border,” Trump wrote. “Dems want a Shutdown in order to help diminish the great success of the Tax Cuts, and what they are doing for our booming economy.”  With talks between Trump and Schumer over, Republicans in the Senate scheduled a vote on a House-passed measure that leaders in both parties expected to fail. After the shutdown began, Schumer lamented the failure to reach a deal with the president, and blamed Trump for abandoning an agreement that was within reach. “What happened to the President Trump who asked us to come up with a deal and promised to take the heat for it?” Schumer asked on the Senate floor. “What happened to that President Trump?”  The invitation for Schumer to come to the White House for a face-to-face with the president had been a heart-stopping moment for conservatives that conjured up their worst fears: a closed-door deal between Trump and the wily Democrat.  With Trump impatient to begin a golf-and-fund-raising weekend at Mar-a-Lago, his Florida estate, there was once again the prospect that the president would publicly side with his Democratic adversaries, who refused to fund the government unless Congress passed legislation to protect the “Dreamers.”  Privately, Trump’s impulses had led him to ignore political protocols and his own Republican allies, like Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and McConnell, who had groused about the president in recent days that the Senate would consider an immigration bill “as soon as we figure out what he is for.” The lack of any success between Schumer and Trump was a failure of what might have been.  However, Chuck Schumer and Donald Trump are trying to blame each other for the federal government's closure. However, the main question here is how do some Republican Senate delegates come together with the Democrats? A question that maybe Tramp did not know its answer...  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.