The session was attended by a number of provinces men of letters and culture figures, who expressed their views on the country's cultural capital and declared that they call for the need to safeguard this title to present further cultural service to the entire country and even the world. A provincial writer and man of culture, Hassan Emdad, said that there are many criteria that can be considered as the historical, scientific, literary, cultural and art background of Shiraz that prove it as a cultural capital. "A glance at prominent poets such as Hafez and Saadi, ancient cultural monuments such as Persepolis dating back to 2,500 years ago, calligraphy, literary and philosophy experts show that the city deserves to be the country's cultural capital," he added. Chairman of Farsology Foundation, Saeed Zahed, said that as life becomes more complicated, social works are divided, adding that all communities and cities are charged with certain tasks in accordance with their conditions. "The model of division of social works is neither used completely in Iran, nor in the world. However, before such model is finalized, the existing systems can make divisions according to the experience and required potentials of the relevant sectors. "Given that the cultural and literary history of Shiraz is evident, it is expected to be introduced as the cultural capital to other communities across the country and even the world to enable it present cultural services," he added. Deputy governor general of the province for political and security affairs, Mohammad-Razi Hadayeq, it is regrettable that one has to defend the title of the city of Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, given that the fact is most obvious. He said that the city's governor-general has made some correspondence on introducing Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, adding that he will continue to pursue the issue.
                  A provincial writer and man of culture, Hassan Emdad, said that there are many criteria that can be considered as the historical, scientific, literary, cultural and art background of Shiraz that prove it as a cultural capital. "A glance at prominent poets such as Hafez and Saadi, ancient cultural monuments such as Persepolis dating back to 2,500 years ago, calligraphy, literary and philosophy experts show that the city deserves to be the country's cultural capital," he added. Chairman of Farsology Foundation, Saeed Zahed, said that as life becomes more complicated, social works are divided, adding that all communities and cities are charged with certain tasks in accordance with their conditions. "The model of division of social works is neither used completely in Iran, nor in the world. However, before such model is finalized, the existing systems can make divisions according to the experience and required potentials of the relevant sectors. "Given that the cultural and literary history of Shiraz is evident, it is expected to be introduced as the cultural capital to other communities across the country and even the world to enable it present cultural services," he added. Deputy governor general of the province for political and security affairs, Mohammad-Razi Hadayeq, it is regrettable that one has to defend the title of the city of Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, given that the fact is most obvious. He said that the city's governor-general has made some correspondence on introducing Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, adding that he will continue to pursue the issue.
                  "A glance at prominent poets such as Hafez and Saadi, ancient cultural monuments such as Persepolis dating back to 2,500 years ago, calligraphy, literary and philosophy experts show that the city deserves to be the country's cultural capital," he added. Chairman of Farsology Foundation, Saeed Zahed, said that as life becomes more complicated, social works are divided, adding that all communities and cities are charged with certain tasks in accordance with their conditions. "The model of division of social works is neither used completely in Iran, nor in the world. However, before such model is finalized, the existing systems can make divisions according to the experience and required potentials of the relevant sectors. "Given that the cultural and literary history of Shiraz is evident, it is expected to be introduced as the cultural capital to other communities across the country and even the world to enable it present cultural services," he added. Deputy governor general of the province for political and security affairs, Mohammad-Razi Hadayeq, it is regrettable that one has to defend the title of the city of Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, given that the fact is most obvious. He said that the city's governor-general has made some correspondence on introducing Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, adding that he will continue to pursue the issue.
                  Chairman of Farsology Foundation, Saeed Zahed, said that as life becomes more complicated, social works are divided, adding that all communities and cities are charged with certain tasks in accordance with their conditions. "The model of division of social works is neither used completely in Iran, nor in the world. However, before such model is finalized, the existing systems can make divisions according to the experience and required potentials of the relevant sectors. "Given that the cultural and literary history of Shiraz is evident, it is expected to be introduced as the cultural capital to other communities across the country and even the world to enable it present cultural services," he added. Deputy governor general of the province for political and security affairs, Mohammad-Razi Hadayeq, it is regrettable that one has to defend the title of the city of Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, given that the fact is most obvious. He said that the city's governor-general has made some correspondence on introducing Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, adding that he will continue to pursue the issue.
                  "The model of division of social works is neither used completely in Iran, nor in the world. However, before such model is finalized, the existing systems can make divisions according to the experience and required potentials of the relevant sectors. "Given that the cultural and literary history of Shiraz is evident, it is expected to be introduced as the cultural capital to other communities across the country and even the world to enable it present cultural services," he added. Deputy governor general of the province for political and security affairs, Mohammad-Razi Hadayeq, it is regrettable that one has to defend the title of the city of Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, given that the fact is most obvious. He said that the city's governor-general has made some correspondence on introducing Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, adding that he will continue to pursue the issue.
                  "Given that the cultural and literary history of Shiraz is evident, it is expected to be introduced as the cultural capital to other communities across the country and even the world to enable it present cultural services," he added. Deputy governor general of the province for political and security affairs, Mohammad-Razi Hadayeq, it is regrettable that one has to defend the title of the city of Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, given that the fact is most obvious. He said that the city's governor-general has made some correspondence on introducing Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, adding that he will continue to pursue the issue.
                  Deputy governor general of the province for political and security affairs, Mohammad-Razi Hadayeq, it is regrettable that one has to defend the title of the city of Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, given that the fact is most obvious. He said that the city's governor-general has made some correspondence on introducing Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, adding that he will continue to pursue the issue.
                  He said that the city's governor-general has made some correspondence on introducing Shiraz as the cultural capital of the country, adding that he will continue to pursue the issue.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.