Deputy Foreign Minister Cristian Diaconescu said, "Romania is keen to expand economic relations with Iran in all possible areas." Later on Romanian deputy minister addressed a press conference that was attended by Iran's domestic media. "The existing warm relations between Tehran and Bucharest may pave the way for further strengthening of ties in economic and industrial fields," Diaconescu said while addressing the media persons in the Romanian Embassy. Romanian Ambassador to Iran Nicolae Stan was also present during the press conference. "We want to boost the production of tractor and locomotive coupled with providing related technology," he said, adding more cooperation is possible in the cement industry. Iran and Romania have joint ventures in tractor and locomotive industries and are also cooperating in cement industry. Diaconescu disclosed that his country's Industry Minister Dan Loan Popescu is due to arrive in Tehran to discuss bilateral issues and sign agreement for the implementation of several other major industrial projects. "Iran-Romania relations have long history," he said, and pointed out that even during the communist system in Romania, Bucharest had satisfactory relations with Tehran. Diaconescu said, in cultural fields, we have the exchange of students.
  Later on Romanian deputy minister addressed a press conference that was attended by Iran's domestic media. "The existing warm relations between Tehran and Bucharest may pave the way for further strengthening of ties in economic and industrial fields," Diaconescu said while addressing the media persons in the Romanian Embassy. Romanian Ambassador to Iran Nicolae Stan was also present during the press conference. "We want to boost the production of tractor and locomotive coupled with providing related technology," he said, adding more cooperation is possible in the cement industry. Iran and Romania have joint ventures in tractor and locomotive industries and are also cooperating in cement industry. Diaconescu disclosed that his country's Industry Minister Dan Loan Popescu is due to arrive in Tehran to discuss bilateral issues and sign agreement for the implementation of several other major industrial projects. "Iran-Romania relations have long history," he said, and pointed out that even during the communist system in Romania, Bucharest had satisfactory relations with Tehran. Diaconescu said, in cultural fields, we have the exchange of students.
  "The existing warm relations between Tehran and Bucharest may pave the way for further strengthening of ties in economic and industrial fields," Diaconescu said while addressing the media persons in the Romanian Embassy. Romanian Ambassador to Iran Nicolae Stan was also present during the press conference. "We want to boost the production of tractor and locomotive coupled with providing related technology," he said, adding more cooperation is possible in the cement industry. Iran and Romania have joint ventures in tractor and locomotive industries and are also cooperating in cement industry. Diaconescu disclosed that his country's Industry Minister Dan Loan Popescu is due to arrive in Tehran to discuss bilateral issues and sign agreement for the implementation of several other major industrial projects. "Iran-Romania relations have long history," he said, and pointed out that even during the communist system in Romania, Bucharest had satisfactory relations with Tehran. Diaconescu said, in cultural fields, we have the exchange of students.
  "We want to boost the production of tractor and locomotive coupled with providing related technology," he said, adding more cooperation is possible in the cement industry. Iran and Romania have joint ventures in tractor and locomotive industries and are also cooperating in cement industry. Diaconescu disclosed that his country's Industry Minister Dan Loan Popescu is due to arrive in Tehran to discuss bilateral issues and sign agreement for the implementation of several other major industrial projects. "Iran-Romania relations have long history," he said, and pointed out that even during the communist system in Romania, Bucharest had satisfactory relations with Tehran. Diaconescu said, in cultural fields, we have the exchange of students.
  Iran and Romania have joint ventures in tractor and locomotive industries and are also cooperating in cement industry. Diaconescu disclosed that his country's Industry Minister Dan Loan Popescu is due to arrive in Tehran to discuss bilateral issues and sign agreement for the implementation of several other major industrial projects. "Iran-Romania relations have long history," he said, and pointed out that even during the communist system in Romania, Bucharest had satisfactory relations with Tehran. Diaconescu said, in cultural fields, we have the exchange of students.
  Diaconescu disclosed that his country's Industry Minister Dan Loan Popescu is due to arrive in Tehran to discuss bilateral issues and sign agreement for the implementation of several other major industrial projects. "Iran-Romania relations have long history," he said, and pointed out that even during the communist system in Romania, Bucharest had satisfactory relations with Tehran. Diaconescu said, in cultural fields, we have the exchange of students.
  "Iran-Romania relations have long history," he said, and pointed out that even during the communist system in Romania, Bucharest had satisfactory relations with Tehran. Diaconescu said, in cultural fields, we have the exchange of students.
  Diaconescu said, in cultural fields, we have the exchange of students.
 
 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.