TEHRAN – Iranian companies will invest 1.8 billion dollars in Iraq in the next Iranian year (starts March 21), the Iran-Iraq Camber of Commerce chairman claimed here on Saturday. “This year, we have invested 1.3 billion dollars in Iraqi projects,” Hassan Tizmaghz, who was speaking at a seminar on ‘expansion of economic and technical ties with Iraq’, stated, adding that the rules for investment in northern Iraq are not different from the state regulations. Also during the seminar, it was announced that Iran will organize seven insurance exhibitions in Iraqi cities this year. Eight Iranian companies to attend Japan’s Foodex 2007 TEHRAN – Eight Iranian companies will take part at Japan’s annual international food exhibition Foodex 2007, the Iran-based representative of Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) said here on Saturday. Thousands of new and existing buyers from the entire Asian marketplace will take part in Japan’s 32nd International Food and Beverage Exhibition. With over 95,000 trade professionals expected to attend, Foodex Japan 2007 is the largest food and beverage trade show in Asia Pacific. The annual show will take place from March 13-16, 2007 at the Makuhari Messe (Nippon Convention Centre), Tokyo. Chabahar accounts for 70% of Iran’s tuna catch ZAHEDAN, Sistan-Baluchestan Prov. – The southeastern port city of Chabahar accounts for 70 percent of the country’s total tuna catch, a local official announced on Saturday. “Chabahar accounts for 40% of Iran’s total fish catch,” Ali Bateni stated, predicting that the port’s total fish catch would hit 300,000 tons by the end of the Fourth Development Plan (2005-10). Mashhad subway system to be equipped with Chinese carriages MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  “This year, we have invested 1.3 billion dollars in Iraqi projects,” Hassan Tizmaghz, who was speaking at a seminar on ‘expansion of economic and technical ties with Iraq’, stated, adding that the rules for investment in northern Iraq are not different from the state regulations. Also during the seminar, it was announced that Iran will organize seven insurance exhibitions in Iraqi cities this year. Eight Iranian companies to attend Japan’s Foodex 2007 TEHRAN – Eight Iranian companies will take part at Japan’s annual international food exhibition Foodex 2007, the Iran-based representative of Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) said here on Saturday. Thousands of new and existing buyers from the entire Asian marketplace will take part in Japan’s 32nd International Food and Beverage Exhibition. With over 95,000 trade professionals expected to attend, Foodex Japan 2007 is the largest food and beverage trade show in Asia Pacific. The annual show will take place from March 13-16, 2007 at the Makuhari Messe (Nippon Convention Centre), Tokyo. Chabahar accounts for 70% of Iran’s tuna catch ZAHEDAN, Sistan-Baluchestan Prov. – The southeastern port city of Chabahar accounts for 70 percent of the country’s total tuna catch, a local official announced on Saturday. “Chabahar accounts for 40% of Iran’s total fish catch,” Ali Bateni stated, predicting that the port’s total fish catch would hit 300,000 tons by the end of the Fourth Development Plan (2005-10). Mashhad subway system to be equipped with Chinese carriages MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  Eight Iranian companies to attend Japan’s Foodex 2007 TEHRAN – Eight Iranian companies will take part at Japan’s annual international food exhibition Foodex 2007, the Iran-based representative of Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) said here on Saturday. Thousands of new and existing buyers from the entire Asian marketplace will take part in Japan’s 32nd International Food and Beverage Exhibition. With over 95,000 trade professionals expected to attend, Foodex Japan 2007 is the largest food and beverage trade show in Asia Pacific. The annual show will take place from March 13-16, 2007 at the Makuhari Messe (Nippon Convention Centre), Tokyo. Chabahar accounts for 70% of Iran’s tuna catch ZAHEDAN, Sistan-Baluchestan Prov. – The southeastern port city of Chabahar accounts for 70 percent of the country’s total tuna catch, a local official announced on Saturday. “Chabahar accounts for 40% of Iran’s total fish catch,” Ali Bateni stated, predicting that the port’s total fish catch would hit 300,000 tons by the end of the Fourth Development Plan (2005-10). Mashhad subway system to be equipped with Chinese carriages MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  TEHRAN – Eight Iranian companies will take part at Japan’s annual international food exhibition Foodex 2007, the Iran-based representative of Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) said here on Saturday. Thousands of new and existing buyers from the entire Asian marketplace will take part in Japan’s 32nd International Food and Beverage Exhibition. With over 95,000 trade professionals expected to attend, Foodex Japan 2007 is the largest food and beverage trade show in Asia Pacific. The annual show will take place from March 13-16, 2007 at the Makuhari Messe (Nippon Convention Centre), Tokyo. Chabahar accounts for 70% of Iran’s tuna catch ZAHEDAN, Sistan-Baluchestan Prov. – The southeastern port city of Chabahar accounts for 70 percent of the country’s total tuna catch, a local official announced on Saturday. “Chabahar accounts for 40% of Iran’s total fish catch,” Ali Bateni stated, predicting that the port’s total fish catch would hit 300,000 tons by the end of the Fourth Development Plan (2005-10). Mashhad subway system to be equipped with Chinese carriages MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  Thousands of new and existing buyers from the entire Asian marketplace will take part in Japan’s 32nd International Food and Beverage Exhibition. With over 95,000 trade professionals expected to attend, Foodex Japan 2007 is the largest food and beverage trade show in Asia Pacific. The annual show will take place from March 13-16, 2007 at the Makuhari Messe (Nippon Convention Centre), Tokyo. Chabahar accounts for 70% of Iran’s tuna catch ZAHEDAN, Sistan-Baluchestan Prov. – The southeastern port city of Chabahar accounts for 70 percent of the country’s total tuna catch, a local official announced on Saturday. “Chabahar accounts for 40% of Iran’s total fish catch,” Ali Bateni stated, predicting that the port’s total fish catch would hit 300,000 tons by the end of the Fourth Development Plan (2005-10). Mashhad subway system to be equipped with Chinese carriages MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  Chabahar accounts for 70% of Iran’s tuna catch ZAHEDAN, Sistan-Baluchestan Prov. – The southeastern port city of Chabahar accounts for 70 percent of the country’s total tuna catch, a local official announced on Saturday. “Chabahar accounts for 40% of Iran’s total fish catch,” Ali Bateni stated, predicting that the port’s total fish catch would hit 300,000 tons by the end of the Fourth Development Plan (2005-10). Mashhad subway system to be equipped with Chinese carriages MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  ZAHEDAN, Sistan-Baluchestan Prov. – The southeastern port city of Chabahar accounts for 70 percent of the country’s total tuna catch, a local official announced on Saturday. “Chabahar accounts for 40% of Iran’s total fish catch,” Ali Bateni stated, predicting that the port’s total fish catch would hit 300,000 tons by the end of the Fourth Development Plan (2005-10). Mashhad subway system to be equipped with Chinese carriages MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  “Chabahar accounts for 40% of Iran’s total fish catch,” Ali Bateni stated, predicting that the port’s total fish catch would hit 300,000 tons by the end of the Fourth Development Plan (2005-10). Mashhad subway system to be equipped with Chinese carriages MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  Mashhad subway system to be equipped with Chinese carriages MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  MASHHAD, Khorasan Razavi Prov. – The municipality of Mashhad has planned for buying 60 carriages for the city’s subway system from a Chinese company, ISNA reported. The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                  The deal with the company was signed during a recent trip to China of a group of the provincial and municipal authorities.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.