TEHRAN - The Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman, Nasser Kanaani touched upon the latest developments in the field of foreign policy during his weekly press briefing on Monday.  Regarding the recent remarks made by the president of the Republic of Azerbaijan, he stated that the Azeri ambassador had been summoned and informed of the Islamic Republic's official viewpoint. Kanaani said Iran was pursuing a strategy based on deepening cordial connections with its neighbors, but no one had the right to misuse this position. Iran will not be agitated by certain remarks made in haste and that no one should misinterpret Iran's forbearance as a sign of its frailty, he emphasized.  ‘Positive measures to revive nuclear deal’ Regarding the Vienna talks intended to revive the 2015 nuclear deal, the spokesman stated that Iran has taken "positive measures" to continue the dialogue process. The spokesman also said Iran's diplomatic system will help make it possible for Iranian players to compete in the World Cup in Qatar in 2022. "We hope the games and the successful outcomes will bring joy to all Iranians, and the diplomatic system will also play its role in making it possible for Iranian youngsters to participate in these events." He went on to say that by creating a special committee, the Iranian embassy in Qatar will likewise take action in this regard. In reference to the large number of Iranians who attended these events as spectators, he said, "The Iranian consular committee is working to provide the required assistance. Additionally, lines of communication have been notified." ‘Iran wants to establish cordial ties with other nations, including Ukraine’ Kanaani also responded to a query on the purported claim that Iran sold weapons to Russia for use in the conflict in Ukraine, saying, "Iran has not provided Russia with any tools or weapons for use in the conflict in Ukraine. Iran engages in defense cooperation on a bilateral basis and in accordance with the law." Kanaani remarked that “in relation to the Russian government, we welcome the constructive role of any country that plays a role in the framework of goodwill to create a positive atmosphere in the relations between the countries of the region, and we respond positively to any effort.”  He stated that “Iran wants to establish cordial ties with other nations, including Ukraine.” “We have repeatedly outlined our viewpoints, and Iran maintains an active neutrality toward Ukraine… With our bilateral collaboration, we have attempted to put both Russia and Ukraine back on the correct path. Iran places a strong emphasis on its connections with other nations.” Kanaani emphasized, "Although Iran is not a part of any military coalition, we would respond if our national security is under jeopardy. In the situation involving Ukraine, we attempted to be helpful." The spokesman also said the foreign ministry presented foreign countries proof that some of their citizens were involved in the riots that engulfed certain cities in Iran.  Legal action had been taken against foreigners involved in the current unrest, he pointed out. Mahsa Amini, a 22-year-old woman who was taken to a police station in Tehran on September 13 along with a few other ladies, for violating dress standards, died from a sudden heart attack and served as the catalyst for the turmoil. “Several foreign nationals who were involved in the recent disturbance in Iran were detained and the appropriate legal action was taken to address their offenses,” Kanaani stated. Kanaani added that during the turmoil the pertinent embassies were called in, given the sabotage proof, and asked to visit Iran with their governments' responses. ‘Political springboard’ The Western-affiliated anti-Iran media, bloggers, and other foreign saboteurs all contributed to the turmoil in Iran under the guise of Mahsa Amini's death. Kanaani responded to the German chancellor's hyperbolic accusations of human rights abuses in Iran and his efforts to scare Iran with further sanctions. He advised Germany to consider its own history of arming Saddam's regime against the Iranian people during the eight-year war in the 1980s. Germany gave the Saddam regime raw materials for building chemical bombs for use against the Iranian people during the war, citing the city of Sardasht as an example. "It is unseemly that they chastise Iran over human rights," Kanaani said in reference to the German authorities. Based on remarks of the spokesman, Iran encouraged the European nations to cease abusing human rights and act diplomatically. He pointed out that sanctions against Iran were counterproductive. Kanaani continued by advising the European nations not to employ the human rights issue as a political springboard. Iran will respond to the sanctions in a necessary and appropriate manner, and sanctions will not be successful, he noted. ‘Iraq ready to continue mediation between Iran and Saudi Arabia’ Regarding the termination of Iraqi mediation between Iran and Saudi Arabia and Russia's proposal to mediate in this regard, he said, “The Iraqi government has always played a constructive and positive role in the negotiations between the two countries. The Iraqi government has signaled readiness to continue helping and playing a positive role.” Regarding the stance of the European nations, the spokesman stated that a few governments have adopted political behavior, nevertheless, the Islamic Republic would not permit them to interfere, Kanaani emphasized. The official acknowledged that he is ignorant of the specifics of the Sunday afternoon drone operation by the IRGC against terrorist sites in northern Iraq, but he emphasized that the Islamic Republic would not remain mute in the face of any danger to its security and boundaries. In addition, Kanaani noted that relations between Iran and Lebanon are cordial and that Tehran rejects unilateral sanctions against Lebanon. Concerning the detention of an Iranian diplomat, Assadollah Assadi, in Belgium, the spokesman stated that the foreign ministry is closely monitoring the situation because the country believes his detention violates international law. When asked about Benjamin Netanyahu's warning to Iran, the spokesperson responded that Tehran does not feel the need to respond because the Zionist regime is an “invader and an assassin, not a threat”. In response to a query on Palestine, Kanaani declared that the Islamic Republic is the country that supports the Palestinian people the most. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.