Addressing the officials in charge of the ceremony to mark 18th departure anniversary of the late Imam Khomeini, he said the late Imam Khomeini taught great lessons to the country's officials and all political groups. Late Imam Khomeini had a wonderful and eternal impacts on the Muslim nations, the Leader said. Ayatollah Khamenei said that aspirations of the late Imam Khomeini were in line with teachings of Islam and that's why his tenets were welcomed by the Muslim communities across the globe. "Imam Khomeini called for return to our Islamic and religious identity, renouncing the bullying powers and the Zionists." The enthusiasm for Imam Khomeini's lessons among the youths is very surprising, the Leader said. "The enemies continued propaganda campaign against late Imam Khomeini which is unfortunately several times more that the dissemination being made to promote the late Imam's aspirations." The Leader said that the current political and ideology dissemination have led to emergence of new young generation in various countries as Lebanon and Palestine who have hoisted flag of Islam in fight against enemies of God. Lauding the efforts of officials in charge of ceremony to honor Imam Khomeini on his departure anniversary, the Leader said the aspirations of the late Imam should be publicized in society. The Leader said that the principles and goals of the Islamic Revolution consistent with religious democracy and human rights in Islam should be clarified to avoid deviation from late Imam's teachings.
                  Late Imam Khomeini had a wonderful and eternal impacts on the Muslim nations, the Leader said. Ayatollah Khamenei said that aspirations of the late Imam Khomeini were in line with teachings of Islam and that's why his tenets were welcomed by the Muslim communities across the globe. "Imam Khomeini called for return to our Islamic and religious identity, renouncing the bullying powers and the Zionists." The enthusiasm for Imam Khomeini's lessons among the youths is very surprising, the Leader said. "The enemies continued propaganda campaign against late Imam Khomeini which is unfortunately several times more that the dissemination being made to promote the late Imam's aspirations." The Leader said that the current political and ideology dissemination have led to emergence of new young generation in various countries as Lebanon and Palestine who have hoisted flag of Islam in fight against enemies of God. Lauding the efforts of officials in charge of ceremony to honor Imam Khomeini on his departure anniversary, the Leader said the aspirations of the late Imam should be publicized in society. The Leader said that the principles and goals of the Islamic Revolution consistent with religious democracy and human rights in Islam should be clarified to avoid deviation from late Imam's teachings.
                  Ayatollah Khamenei said that aspirations of the late Imam Khomeini were in line with teachings of Islam and that's why his tenets were welcomed by the Muslim communities across the globe. "Imam Khomeini called for return to our Islamic and religious identity, renouncing the bullying powers and the Zionists." The enthusiasm for Imam Khomeini's lessons among the youths is very surprising, the Leader said. "The enemies continued propaganda campaign against late Imam Khomeini which is unfortunately several times more that the dissemination being made to promote the late Imam's aspirations." The Leader said that the current political and ideology dissemination have led to emergence of new young generation in various countries as Lebanon and Palestine who have hoisted flag of Islam in fight against enemies of God. Lauding the efforts of officials in charge of ceremony to honor Imam Khomeini on his departure anniversary, the Leader said the aspirations of the late Imam should be publicized in society. The Leader said that the principles and goals of the Islamic Revolution consistent with religious democracy and human rights in Islam should be clarified to avoid deviation from late Imam's teachings.
                  The enthusiasm for Imam Khomeini's lessons among the youths is very surprising, the Leader said. "The enemies continued propaganda campaign against late Imam Khomeini which is unfortunately several times more that the dissemination being made to promote the late Imam's aspirations." The Leader said that the current political and ideology dissemination have led to emergence of new young generation in various countries as Lebanon and Palestine who have hoisted flag of Islam in fight against enemies of God. Lauding the efforts of officials in charge of ceremony to honor Imam Khomeini on his departure anniversary, the Leader said the aspirations of the late Imam should be publicized in society. The Leader said that the principles and goals of the Islamic Revolution consistent with religious democracy and human rights in Islam should be clarified to avoid deviation from late Imam's teachings.
                  The Leader said that the current political and ideology dissemination have led to emergence of new young generation in various countries as Lebanon and Palestine who have hoisted flag of Islam in fight against enemies of God. Lauding the efforts of officials in charge of ceremony to honor Imam Khomeini on his departure anniversary, the Leader said the aspirations of the late Imam should be publicized in society. The Leader said that the principles and goals of the Islamic Revolution consistent with religious democracy and human rights in Islam should be clarified to avoid deviation from late Imam's teachings.
                  Lauding the efforts of officials in charge of ceremony to honor Imam Khomeini on his departure anniversary, the Leader said the aspirations of the late Imam should be publicized in society. The Leader said that the principles and goals of the Islamic Revolution consistent with religious democracy and human rights in Islam should be clarified to avoid deviation from late Imam's teachings.
                  The Leader said that the principles and goals of the Islamic Revolution consistent with religious democracy and human rights in Islam should be clarified to avoid deviation from late Imam's teachings.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.