In the first half of the 20th century, the Zionists occupied the Palestinian territories and killed or displaced a large number of innocent Palestinian men, women and children through a conspiracy hatched by Britain and the United States. Through the all-out and unconditional support of these two countries, the Zionist terrorists massacred the people in several Palestinian towns and villages and warned the residents in other parts of Palestine to leave their homes and go to neighboring countries or face the same fate. Thus, through heinous crimes of Zionists and support of the United States and Britain, the illegitimate Zionist entity was conceived in 1948. The Palestinian people who left their homes have since been living at refugee camps in neighboring countries under miserable conditions, and those who refused to live their homeland have suffered all sorts of crimes and brutalities. The open-minded people across the world have often voiced sympathy with the oppressed Palestinians and their cause. Even the United Nations Security Council has issued several resolutions in the past half a century in support of the Palestinian rights and in condemnation of the Zionist brutalities against this oppressed nation. But due to Washington's unlimited support for the Zionist entity and its influence over the United Nations, most of these resolutions were either vetoed by the United States, or they have remained in limbo due to Israel's refusal to implement them. The U.S. double standard policy has already been revealed to the world. Although in the past half a century, the United States did not take even the smallest measure against Israel for its occupation of the Palestinian land and turned a blind eye to Zionist atrocities against the innocent Palestinian people, it mobilized an international force to drive Iraqi troops out of Kuwait immediately after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. Washington once tried to pose as a peacemaker by sponsoring and initiating the so-called Middle East peace talks, but even then it assumed a biased role in favor of the Zionist entity, so much so that Israel refused to implement most articles of the Oslo Accord reached with the Palestinian Authority. The fact is that the U.S. administration is under great influence of the Zionist lobby. Therefore, Washington can never be expected to take any measures that could help to restore the violated rights of the Palestinian nation. This fact is now wholly understood by the Palestinian people, who are now resorting to Intifada to regain their rights. The Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei has often called on all Muslim countries to help the Palestinians in their sacred struggle against the Zionist occupiers. The Tehran Conference on Palestinian Intifada will surely play a major role in rallying international support for the sacred cause of Palestinians and their Intifada, which is indeed a turning point in the history of Palestinian struggle against the Zionist occupiers.
                  The Palestinian people who left their homes have since been living at refugee camps in neighboring countries under miserable conditions, and those who refused to live their homeland have suffered all sorts of crimes and brutalities. The open-minded people across the world have often voiced sympathy with the oppressed Palestinians and their cause. Even the United Nations Security Council has issued several resolutions in the past half a century in support of the Palestinian rights and in condemnation of the Zionist brutalities against this oppressed nation. But due to Washington's unlimited support for the Zionist entity and its influence over the United Nations, most of these resolutions were either vetoed by the United States, or they have remained in limbo due to Israel's refusal to implement them. The U.S. double standard policy has already been revealed to the world. Although in the past half a century, the United States did not take even the smallest measure against Israel for its occupation of the Palestinian land and turned a blind eye to Zionist atrocities against the innocent Palestinian people, it mobilized an international force to drive Iraqi troops out of Kuwait immediately after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. Washington once tried to pose as a peacemaker by sponsoring and initiating the so-called Middle East peace talks, but even then it assumed a biased role in favor of the Zionist entity, so much so that Israel refused to implement most articles of the Oslo Accord reached with the Palestinian Authority. The fact is that the U.S. administration is under great influence of the Zionist lobby. Therefore, Washington can never be expected to take any measures that could help to restore the violated rights of the Palestinian nation. This fact is now wholly understood by the Palestinian people, who are now resorting to Intifada to regain their rights. The Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei has often called on all Muslim countries to help the Palestinians in their sacred struggle against the Zionist occupiers. The Tehran Conference on Palestinian Intifada will surely play a major role in rallying international support for the sacred cause of Palestinians and their Intifada, which is indeed a turning point in the history of Palestinian struggle against the Zionist occupiers.
                  The open-minded people across the world have often voiced sympathy with the oppressed Palestinians and their cause. Even the United Nations Security Council has issued several resolutions in the past half a century in support of the Palestinian rights and in condemnation of the Zionist brutalities against this oppressed nation. But due to Washington's unlimited support for the Zionist entity and its influence over the United Nations, most of these resolutions were either vetoed by the United States, or they have remained in limbo due to Israel's refusal to implement them. The U.S. double standard policy has already been revealed to the world. Although in the past half a century, the United States did not take even the smallest measure against Israel for its occupation of the Palestinian land and turned a blind eye to Zionist atrocities against the innocent Palestinian people, it mobilized an international force to drive Iraqi troops out of Kuwait immediately after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. Washington once tried to pose as a peacemaker by sponsoring and initiating the so-called Middle East peace talks, but even then it assumed a biased role in favor of the Zionist entity, so much so that Israel refused to implement most articles of the Oslo Accord reached with the Palestinian Authority. The fact is that the U.S. administration is under great influence of the Zionist lobby. Therefore, Washington can never be expected to take any measures that could help to restore the violated rights of the Palestinian nation. This fact is now wholly understood by the Palestinian people, who are now resorting to Intifada to regain their rights. The Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei has often called on all Muslim countries to help the Palestinians in their sacred struggle against the Zionist occupiers. The Tehran Conference on Palestinian Intifada will surely play a major role in rallying international support for the sacred cause of Palestinians and their Intifada, which is indeed a turning point in the history of Palestinian struggle against the Zionist occupiers.
                  The U.S. double standard policy has already been revealed to the world. Although in the past half a century, the United States did not take even the smallest measure against Israel for its occupation of the Palestinian land and turned a blind eye to Zionist atrocities against the innocent Palestinian people, it mobilized an international force to drive Iraqi troops out of Kuwait immediately after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. Washington once tried to pose as a peacemaker by sponsoring and initiating the so-called Middle East peace talks, but even then it assumed a biased role in favor of the Zionist entity, so much so that Israel refused to implement most articles of the Oslo Accord reached with the Palestinian Authority. The fact is that the U.S. administration is under great influence of the Zionist lobby. Therefore, Washington can never be expected to take any measures that could help to restore the violated rights of the Palestinian nation. This fact is now wholly understood by the Palestinian people, who are now resorting to Intifada to regain their rights. The Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei has often called on all Muslim countries to help the Palestinians in their sacred struggle against the Zionist occupiers. The Tehran Conference on Palestinian Intifada will surely play a major role in rallying international support for the sacred cause of Palestinians and their Intifada, which is indeed a turning point in the history of Palestinian struggle against the Zionist occupiers.
                  Washington once tried to pose as a peacemaker by sponsoring and initiating the so-called Middle East peace talks, but even then it assumed a biased role in favor of the Zionist entity, so much so that Israel refused to implement most articles of the Oslo Accord reached with the Palestinian Authority. The fact is that the U.S. administration is under great influence of the Zionist lobby. Therefore, Washington can never be expected to take any measures that could help to restore the violated rights of the Palestinian nation. This fact is now wholly understood by the Palestinian people, who are now resorting to Intifada to regain their rights. The Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei has often called on all Muslim countries to help the Palestinians in their sacred struggle against the Zionist occupiers. The Tehran Conference on Palestinian Intifada will surely play a major role in rallying international support for the sacred cause of Palestinians and their Intifada, which is indeed a turning point in the history of Palestinian struggle against the Zionist occupiers.
                  The fact is that the U.S. administration is under great influence of the Zionist lobby. Therefore, Washington can never be expected to take any measures that could help to restore the violated rights of the Palestinian nation. This fact is now wholly understood by the Palestinian people, who are now resorting to Intifada to regain their rights. The Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei has often called on all Muslim countries to help the Palestinians in their sacred struggle against the Zionist occupiers. The Tehran Conference on Palestinian Intifada will surely play a major role in rallying international support for the sacred cause of Palestinians and their Intifada, which is indeed a turning point in the history of Palestinian struggle against the Zionist occupiers.
                  The Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei has often called on all Muslim countries to help the Palestinians in their sacred struggle against the Zionist occupiers. The Tehran Conference on Palestinian Intifada will surely play a major role in rallying international support for the sacred cause of Palestinians and their Intifada, which is indeed a turning point in the history of Palestinian struggle against the Zionist occupiers.
                  The Tehran Conference on Palestinian Intifada will surely play a major role in rallying international support for the sacred cause of Palestinians and their Intifada, which is indeed a turning point in the history of Palestinian struggle against the Zionist occupiers.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.