The four-day event is hosting more than 1,200 companies from 39 countries. The inaugural ceremony of exhibition was attended by Iranian Ambassador to Beijing Javad Mansuri and a number of foreign representatives residing in China. Iran, Italy, Spain, India, Egypt, Brazil, Turkey, Norway, Greece and Portugal are major exporters of stone to China, which are represented at this year's exhibition. Mansuri visited various sections of the exhibition and talked to Iranian businessmen. Iranian tradesmen presented a report on the capacity of their companies, briefing him on the problems facing the exports of stone. Mansuri hoped that elimination of the current obstacles will prepare the ground for further activities of Iran's private sector and facilitate exports of Iranian stone to other countries, including China. According to statistics, Iran's annual revenue from exports of stone to China is about 300 million dollars. The Iranian stones exported to China include travertine, marble, and onyx. China is the biggest exporter of stone to Japan, the U.S. and South Korea. It exports more than 12,250 tons of 33 types of stones. The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                  The inaugural ceremony of exhibition was attended by Iranian Ambassador to Beijing Javad Mansuri and a number of foreign representatives residing in China. Iran, Italy, Spain, India, Egypt, Brazil, Turkey, Norway, Greece and Portugal are major exporters of stone to China, which are represented at this year's exhibition. Mansuri visited various sections of the exhibition and talked to Iranian businessmen. Iranian tradesmen presented a report on the capacity of their companies, briefing him on the problems facing the exports of stone. Mansuri hoped that elimination of the current obstacles will prepare the ground for further activities of Iran's private sector and facilitate exports of Iranian stone to other countries, including China. According to statistics, Iran's annual revenue from exports of stone to China is about 300 million dollars. The Iranian stones exported to China include travertine, marble, and onyx. China is the biggest exporter of stone to Japan, the U.S. and South Korea. It exports more than 12,250 tons of 33 types of stones. The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                  Iran, Italy, Spain, India, Egypt, Brazil, Turkey, Norway, Greece and Portugal are major exporters of stone to China, which are represented at this year's exhibition. Mansuri visited various sections of the exhibition and talked to Iranian businessmen. Iranian tradesmen presented a report on the capacity of their companies, briefing him on the problems facing the exports of stone. Mansuri hoped that elimination of the current obstacles will prepare the ground for further activities of Iran's private sector and facilitate exports of Iranian stone to other countries, including China. According to statistics, Iran's annual revenue from exports of stone to China is about 300 million dollars. The Iranian stones exported to China include travertine, marble, and onyx. China is the biggest exporter of stone to Japan, the U.S. and South Korea. It exports more than 12,250 tons of 33 types of stones. The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                  Mansuri visited various sections of the exhibition and talked to Iranian businessmen. Iranian tradesmen presented a report on the capacity of their companies, briefing him on the problems facing the exports of stone. Mansuri hoped that elimination of the current obstacles will prepare the ground for further activities of Iran's private sector and facilitate exports of Iranian stone to other countries, including China. According to statistics, Iran's annual revenue from exports of stone to China is about 300 million dollars. The Iranian stones exported to China include travertine, marble, and onyx. China is the biggest exporter of stone to Japan, the U.S. and South Korea. It exports more than 12,250 tons of 33 types of stones. The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                  Iranian tradesmen presented a report on the capacity of their companies, briefing him on the problems facing the exports of stone. Mansuri hoped that elimination of the current obstacles will prepare the ground for further activities of Iran's private sector and facilitate exports of Iranian stone to other countries, including China. According to statistics, Iran's annual revenue from exports of stone to China is about 300 million dollars. The Iranian stones exported to China include travertine, marble, and onyx. China is the biggest exporter of stone to Japan, the U.S. and South Korea. It exports more than 12,250 tons of 33 types of stones. The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                  Mansuri hoped that elimination of the current obstacles will prepare the ground for further activities of Iran's private sector and facilitate exports of Iranian stone to other countries, including China. According to statistics, Iran's annual revenue from exports of stone to China is about 300 million dollars. The Iranian stones exported to China include travertine, marble, and onyx. China is the biggest exporter of stone to Japan, the U.S. and South Korea. It exports more than 12,250 tons of 33 types of stones. The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                  According to statistics, Iran's annual revenue from exports of stone to China is about 300 million dollars. The Iranian stones exported to China include travertine, marble, and onyx. China is the biggest exporter of stone to Japan, the U.S. and South Korea. It exports more than 12,250 tons of 33 types of stones. The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                  The Iranian stones exported to China include travertine, marble, and onyx. China is the biggest exporter of stone to Japan, the U.S. and South Korea. It exports more than 12,250 tons of 33 types of stones. The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                  China is the biggest exporter of stone to Japan, the U.S. and South Korea. It exports more than 12,250 tons of 33 types of stones. The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                  The international stone exhibition in China is held twice per year in Beijing and port city of Shanghai.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.