In his first speech to the United Nations General Assembly, Donald Trump expressed his anger over the failure of his policy towards Iran. The general reaction to the words of Trump reveals that America has been isolated in the world. As  Independent  reported, Donald Trump gave his first address to the United Nations General Assembly, pushing for “sovereignty” in what has been called both “terrifying” and “delusional” by experts. The President, sticking to prepared remarks as he spoke in front of the signature green marble of the UN Headquarters in New York, spoke primarily on his “America First” doctrine, North Korea, and Iran. His main message to member countries gathered also addressed his core base: “I will always put America first, just like you as the leaders of your countries will always - and should always - put your countries first.” How do experts look at Tramp's Speech? Most experts have described the words of Tramp at the UN General Assembly as illogical and irrational, and on the other hand, it reflects the dangerous foreign policy of the US government. As Independent  reported, The words “sovereign” or “sovereignty” were mentioned at least 18 times in the nearly 40 minute speech as delivered.Although all the experts The Independent spoke with agreed that it was a consistently Trump-esque speech - “it was more rhetorically repetitious than intellectually coherent” according to UN expert at the European Council of Foreign Relations Richard Gowan. Mr Gowan said the speech was more catered toward appeasing the President’s base of supporters who have stuck to Mr Trump’s repeated campaign and early term remarks that the UN is full of elitists and “just a good time “just a club for people to get together, talk and have a good time”.TJ Pempel, a political science professor at the University of California-Berkeley, echoed that statement, adding that the speech was “good for headlines” but not much else in terms of reducing global threats. Daniel Larison in The American Conservative said: “U.S. foreign policy already suffers from far too much self-congratulation and excessive confidence in our own righteousness, so it was alarming to hear Trump speak in such stark, fanatical terms about international affairs.” Articulating the views of the isolationist wing of conservatives, Mr. Larison criticizes Mr. Trump’s belligerent tone. He compares the president’s confrontational talk with President George W. Bush’s “axis of evil” remarks, and worries that Mr. Trump’s speech will commit the United States to more “avoidable wars.” This, according to Mr. Larison, has nothing to do with “putting American interests first. Netanyahu and John Bolton welcomed Tramp's remarks Netanyahu and John Bolton's remarks from Tramp's speech show how dangerous his words were! Netanyahu and Bolton are two Israeli and American politicians who are both symbols of extremism in the international system. Former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton praised President Trump‘s U.N. speech today as the “best speech of the Trump presidency.”
On Fox News, Bolton said, “I think he was as clear and direct as it’s possible to be.” “In the entire history of the United Nations,” he continued, “there has never been a more straightforward criticism of the behavior –– the unacceptable behavior –– of other neighbor states.” Bolton invoked Trump’s tough talk on North Korea and Iran in particular. He added, “For Americans, plain speaking is still a virtue.” In other hand, Benjamin Netanyahu gave President Trump high marks Tuesday afternoon for his speech before the United National General Assembly earlier in the day. "In over 30 years in my experience with the UN, I never heard a bolder or more courageous speech," Netanyahu tweeted."President Trump spoke the truth about the great dangers facing our world ... and issued a powerful call to confront them in order to ensure the future of humanity!" Zarif criticized trump's speech  The words of Trump at the United Nations General Assembly have led to the reaction of the Islamic Republic of Iran.Iran's top diplomat criticized President Donald Trump's “ignorant“ first-ever speech at the U.N. General Assembly in New York on Tuesday. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif took to local and social media to counter Trump's attack on Tehran and the 2015 nuclear treaty negotiated by President Barack Obama, Iran and other leading powers. Zarif, who was deeply involved in negotiations to establish the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) nuclear deal, defended Iran against Trump's accusations that it funds terrorism and destabilizes the Gulf region—where it supports various groups opposed to the Islamic State militant group (ISIS) as well as the U.S. presence.
 “Trump’s shameless and ignorant remarks, in which he ignored Iran’s fight against terrorism, displays his lack of knowledge and unawareness,” according to Reuters. An invaluable analysis of Tramp's words Some media also preferred to look at Trump's remarks at the UN General Assembly from another angle.
"Trump's ignorant hate speech belongs in medieval times-not the 21st Century UN-unworthy of a reply. Fake empathy for Iranians fools no one," he added on his official Twitter account.
In his maiden speech at the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday, President Donald Trump painted a dark vision of a world where every nation stands alone and cooperation is transactional and motivated by self-interest rather than shared values. 
Standing before the representatives of the 193 member states of the United Nations, Trump delivered a perfect distillation of his hyper-nationalist America First worldview adapted for the world stage.
“As president of the United States, I will always put America first. Just like you, as the leaders of your countries, will always and should always put your countries first,” Trump said to a round of muted applause.
The centerpiece of Trump’s speech was the idea that every nation is best served by embracing its own independence. “Strong sovereign nations let their people take ownership of the future and control their own destiny,” he said. He defended the US’s right to push back against the norms of international trade, lamented the costs of immigration on countries, and said that the US has no interest in dictating how other countries should conduct their own affairs.
International reactions to the words of Trump Trump's remarks at the United Nations General Assembly have led to reactions among the leaders of other countries in the world.
"This was a bombastic, nationalist speech. It must have been decades since one last heard a speech like that in the U.N. General Assembly. ... This was a speech at the wrong time to the wrong audience." Margot Wallstrom, foreign minister of Sweden.
Also , Venezuelan Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza said: "No leader can come and question our democracy, can come and question our sovereignty. We do not accept threats from President Trump or whoever in this world."
Furthermore, Konstantin Kosachev, head of the foreign affairs committee in the upper house of the Russian parliament said:
"Syria, Cuba and Venezuela are (painted as) almost the worst dictatorships in the history of the humankind." He said the speech was "contradictory," mixing expressions of respect for nations' sovereign rights with a "barefaced U.S. pretense to determine who has such rights and who does not." All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.