In addition to the researchers and professionals, ordinary people can visit these interesting mammals in this center. This way, Iranian seal-watching tours will be able to attract a lot of visitors. Since Iran does not have a specific program to protect seals, Mrs. Linhart, secretary general of the biggest scientific organization in the Netherlands whose specialty is keeping and protecting the seals, has come to Iran to take some measures for the protection of this animal species. She has had some negotiations with the Iranian experts in this respect. “While Iranian authorities neglected paying attention to the conditions of the seals in Iran, Mrs. Linhart makes a travel to this country to take care of this matter. These mammals are in danger of extinction in Ashoradeh. Therefore, I submitted a report to Iran’s Environment Organization on the reasons behind the high death rates among these animals, yet no measures were undertaken in this respect,” said Hormoz Asadi, Ecologist, who has carried out numerous studies on the life of the seals who live in the Caspian Sea shores. According to Asadi, seals will be kept and cured in this center which is to be established in northern Iran soon. “Following the agreements made with Iran’s Environment Organization, this center will be established on the shores of Caspian Sea,” added Asadi. Based on the memorandum of understanding between Iran’s DoE and this company which is based in the Netherlands, the executive programs for establishing this center will start in the near future.
                  Since Iran does not have a specific program to protect seals, Mrs. Linhart, secretary general of the biggest scientific organization in the Netherlands whose specialty is keeping and protecting the seals, has come to Iran to take some measures for the protection of this animal species. She has had some negotiations with the Iranian experts in this respect. “While Iranian authorities neglected paying attention to the conditions of the seals in Iran, Mrs. Linhart makes a travel to this country to take care of this matter. These mammals are in danger of extinction in Ashoradeh. Therefore, I submitted a report to Iran’s Environment Organization on the reasons behind the high death rates among these animals, yet no measures were undertaken in this respect,” said Hormoz Asadi, Ecologist, who has carried out numerous studies on the life of the seals who live in the Caspian Sea shores. According to Asadi, seals will be kept and cured in this center which is to be established in northern Iran soon. “Following the agreements made with Iran’s Environment Organization, this center will be established on the shores of Caspian Sea,” added Asadi. Based on the memorandum of understanding between Iran’s DoE and this company which is based in the Netherlands, the executive programs for establishing this center will start in the near future.
                  “While Iranian authorities neglected paying attention to the conditions of the seals in Iran, Mrs. Linhart makes a travel to this country to take care of this matter. These mammals are in danger of extinction in Ashoradeh. Therefore, I submitted a report to Iran’s Environment Organization on the reasons behind the high death rates among these animals, yet no measures were undertaken in this respect,” said Hormoz Asadi, Ecologist, who has carried out numerous studies on the life of the seals who live in the Caspian Sea shores. According to Asadi, seals will be kept and cured in this center which is to be established in northern Iran soon. “Following the agreements made with Iran’s Environment Organization, this center will be established on the shores of Caspian Sea,” added Asadi. Based on the memorandum of understanding between Iran’s DoE and this company which is based in the Netherlands, the executive programs for establishing this center will start in the near future.
                  According to Asadi, seals will be kept and cured in this center which is to be established in northern Iran soon. “Following the agreements made with Iran’s Environment Organization, this center will be established on the shores of Caspian Sea,” added Asadi. Based on the memorandum of understanding between Iran’s DoE and this company which is based in the Netherlands, the executive programs for establishing this center will start in the near future.
                  “Following the agreements made with Iran’s Environment Organization, this center will be established on the shores of Caspian Sea,” added Asadi. Based on the memorandum of understanding between Iran’s DoE and this company which is based in the Netherlands, the executive programs for establishing this center will start in the near future.
                  Based on the memorandum of understanding between Iran’s DoE and this company which is based in the Netherlands, the executive programs for establishing this center will start in the near future.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.