Sadeqi told IRNA that the ICCIM is ready to set up the joint chamber. He said the issue concerning establishment of the chamber is to be included on the agenda of the third session of Tehran-Ankara Joint Economic Commission. He added that more than 300 Iranian traders and industrialists have attained membership of the Iran-Turkey Joint Commercial Cooperation Council. He said the Turkish businessmen believe that council was necessary for continuation and promotion of mutual economic cooperation. Turkish traders have welcomed Iran's new investment law, calling for joint venture projects for production of goods and their export to Afghanistan, said the Iranian official. Calling as "helpful" the talks held with Turkish traders and industrialists in Tehran, Sadeqi said the Iranian and Turkish officials in the presence of the two sides' presidents promised to open a new chapter in bilateral trade and industrial ties. The Iranian official said that Iran-Turkey Commercial Cooperation Council has opened to upgrade commercial and industrial cooperation, and facilitate joint investment, and marketing in a third country. The council was established in Ankara in November 2001 through a memorandum of understanding signed by chairmen of Iranian and Turkish chambers of commerce. The second meeting of the council, attended by about 300 Iranian and Turkish traders, industrialists and businessmen, explored ways of expanding bilateral commercial and economic ties.
                  He added that more than 300 Iranian traders and industrialists have attained membership of the Iran-Turkey Joint Commercial Cooperation Council. He said the Turkish businessmen believe that council was necessary for continuation and promotion of mutual economic cooperation. Turkish traders have welcomed Iran's new investment law, calling for joint venture projects for production of goods and their export to Afghanistan, said the Iranian official. Calling as "helpful" the talks held with Turkish traders and industrialists in Tehran, Sadeqi said the Iranian and Turkish officials in the presence of the two sides' presidents promised to open a new chapter in bilateral trade and industrial ties. The Iranian official said that Iran-Turkey Commercial Cooperation Council has opened to upgrade commercial and industrial cooperation, and facilitate joint investment, and marketing in a third country. The council was established in Ankara in November 2001 through a memorandum of understanding signed by chairmen of Iranian and Turkish chambers of commerce. The second meeting of the council, attended by about 300 Iranian and Turkish traders, industrialists and businessmen, explored ways of expanding bilateral commercial and economic ties.
                  Turkish traders have welcomed Iran's new investment law, calling for joint venture projects for production of goods and their export to Afghanistan, said the Iranian official. Calling as "helpful" the talks held with Turkish traders and industrialists in Tehran, Sadeqi said the Iranian and Turkish officials in the presence of the two sides' presidents promised to open a new chapter in bilateral trade and industrial ties. The Iranian official said that Iran-Turkey Commercial Cooperation Council has opened to upgrade commercial and industrial cooperation, and facilitate joint investment, and marketing in a third country. The council was established in Ankara in November 2001 through a memorandum of understanding signed by chairmen of Iranian and Turkish chambers of commerce. The second meeting of the council, attended by about 300 Iranian and Turkish traders, industrialists and businessmen, explored ways of expanding bilateral commercial and economic ties.
                  Calling as "helpful" the talks held with Turkish traders and industrialists in Tehran, Sadeqi said the Iranian and Turkish officials in the presence of the two sides' presidents promised to open a new chapter in bilateral trade and industrial ties. The Iranian official said that Iran-Turkey Commercial Cooperation Council has opened to upgrade commercial and industrial cooperation, and facilitate joint investment, and marketing in a third country. The council was established in Ankara in November 2001 through a memorandum of understanding signed by chairmen of Iranian and Turkish chambers of commerce. The second meeting of the council, attended by about 300 Iranian and Turkish traders, industrialists and businessmen, explored ways of expanding bilateral commercial and economic ties.
                  The Iranian official said that Iran-Turkey Commercial Cooperation Council has opened to upgrade commercial and industrial cooperation, and facilitate joint investment, and marketing in a third country. The council was established in Ankara in November 2001 through a memorandum of understanding signed by chairmen of Iranian and Turkish chambers of commerce. The second meeting of the council, attended by about 300 Iranian and Turkish traders, industrialists and businessmen, explored ways of expanding bilateral commercial and economic ties.
                  The council was established in Ankara in November 2001 through a memorandum of understanding signed by chairmen of Iranian and Turkish chambers of commerce. The second meeting of the council, attended by about 300 Iranian and Turkish traders, industrialists and businessmen, explored ways of expanding bilateral commercial and economic ties.
                  The second meeting of the council, attended by about 300 Iranian and Turkish traders, industrialists and businessmen, explored ways of expanding bilateral commercial and economic ties.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.