TEHRAN- The UN Human Rights Council has been forewarned against holding any sessions on Iran by Foreign Minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian, who noted that such a move would hinder Iran's relations with the West. On Thursday night, the Iranian minister spoke by phone with Antonio Guterres, the UN secretary general, that covered a range of topics. The efforts of several Western states to call a UN Human Rights Council session on Iran were censured by Amir Abdollahian, who also criticized their use of contradictory approach. Iran, as a real champion of human rights, showed excellent restraint in dealing with the recent riots and therefore the issue should not be discussed by the UN Human Rights Council, Amir Abdollahian said. The foreign minister warned about the unfavorable effects of the UNHRC's political move on collaboration between Iran and the West. "Contrary to the UN Charter, a small number of Western countries exploited Iran's peaceful demands and encouraged violence, offered tutorials on making weapons and Molotov cocktails on media and social networks, which resulted in the murder of police and insecurity in Iran," the minister lamented. He made a reference to the Shah Cheragh Shrine terror attack in Shiraz on October 26, which resulted in the deaths of over a dozen pilgrims, including women and children, and injury of at least 30 others. He asserted that such actions created the condition for a terrorist strike by Daesh. Amir Abdollahian also condemned an Arab country's "security and media" intervention in domestic disturbances. The foreign minister was openly referring to Saudi Arabia, which, according to Iranian intelligence agencies, has played a part in the unrest. The Saudi-funded Iran International, headquartered in London, has been the main instigator of riots in Iran.  Guterres, for his part, condemned the council's political meddling in other nations' domestic affairs. Dozens of people, including security personnel, have been killed in riots in Iran. Foreign intelligence agencies, particularly the CIA, left their mark on the riots that broke out after the death of young woman Mahsa Amini which started in mid-September, according to the Iranian intelligence bodies. UN chief calls Iran's collaboration with IAEA a wise act Iran and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) are in technical conversations, which the Iranian foreign ministry referred to as appropriate bilateral collaboration. On November 2, Foreign Minister Amir Abdollahian had announced that an Iranian delegation will go to Vienna to meet with the IAEA officials. Iran has previously expressed its willingness to engage in technical discussions with IAEA specialists about the allegations about purportedly "undeclared" nuclear installations, which were made based on fictitious information supplied by the Israeli regime. Tehran has insisted that the IAEA needs to refrain from politicizing the atmosphere surrounding Iran’s nuclear program and only concentrate on its technical elements in accordance with its mandate. Amir Abdollahian further reminded Guterres of recent exchange of messages between Tehran and Washington via the European Union. The UN chief praised Iran for emphasizing dialogue and said a revival of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the name given to the 2015 nuclear agreement, will protect the interests of all parties. He said that Iran's sustained collaboration with the IAEA was a wise move. Iran working with UN to extend Yemen truce Amir Abdollahian also insisted that Iran is still working with the UN to prolong the ceasefire in Yemen. Iran’s chief diplomat added the Yemeni leaders and people will, of course, are insisting on continuation of the cease-fire and a total lifting of the blockade. So far, the Saudi-led coalition has refused to lift blockade on Yemen. So far, the warring sides in Yemen have failed to reach an agreement to extend the cease-fire. In a statement on October 3, the UN’s envoy to Yemen called on all sides to refrain from acts of provocation as the talks continue, after an October 2 deadline for extending the agreement expired. The ceasefire between Yemen and the Saudi-led coalition originally went into force in April, and it has since been extended twice more by the UN. Yemen's Foreign Minister, Hisham Sharaf, declared in the middle of October that negotiations regarding extending the ceasefire would not proceed until all of the country's legitimate requests had been satisfied. In his Thursday talks with Iran’s foreign minister, Guterres praised Tehran for its "constructive" contribution to the fight against terrorism and its assistance in bringing about a ceasefire in Yemen. He also urged Tehran to continue working with UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg to preserve the current ceasefire. In addition, the UN chief mentioned a recent discussion he had with Iranian and Persian Gulf Arab diplomats with the hope of a new framework for regional cooperation to enhance peace and stability in the region. The Iranian minister, elsewhere, vehemently denied "baseless charges" regarding the shipment of Iranian drones to Russia for use in the conflict in Ukraine. Amir Abdollahian said on November 5 that Iran had given Russia a small number of drones months before the conflict in Ukraine. He also said that a meeting between Iranian and Ukrainian officials had been planned for two weeks earlier because an Iranian political and defense team had traveled to Europe to meet a delegation from Ukraine. Regrettably, he stated, Kiev decided at the last minute not to attend the meeting. Iran contributes significantly to regional peace: Italy FM Also, during a phone conversation with his Iranian counterpart Amir Abdollahian, Italian Foreign Minister Antonio Tajani emphasized Tehran's contribution to improvement of peace and security in the West Asia region  The Italian foreign minister underlined that the Islamic Republic is crucial to the stability of the region. "Iran and Italy are both heirs to old civilizations, and may enjoy vast and expanding bilateral connections," Tajani continued. The senior Italian diplomat also spoke on the ongoing nuclear negotiations mediated by the European Union with the intention of restoring 2015 Iran nuclear agreement. In 2018, the United States withdrew from the nuclear agreement and reinstated the sanctions that it had previously been lifted. Tajani said that his nation will "do its utmost" to ensure that the negotiations result in a deal that serves the interests of all parties involved. For his part, the Iranian foreign minister provided an update on the JCPOA revival talks as well as data on how the Islamic Republic continues to work with the International Atomic Energy Agency. He also underlined the desire to deepen the political, economic, and cultural ties between the two countries. The senior Iranian diplomat also expressed gratitude to Tajani for Italy's denunciation of the October 26 terrorist attack in Shiraz. Iran’s chief diplomat also addressed the matter of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine that started in February. Amir Abdollahian reiterated Tehran’s position on the need to find a “political settlement” and “cease the war", saying this is Tehran’s "principled and unwavering" approach toward the Ukraine war. Accordingly, the Islamic Republic will keep working towards "advancement of the political process," which may put an end to the fighting, Amir Abdollahian added. Iranian, Omani chief diplomat hold talks on Iran sanctions  In a separate phone call on Thursday, Amir Abdollahian and his Omani counterpart Sayyid Badr Albusaidi also focused on advancing bilateral ties while also discussing the most recent regional developments. Amir Abdollahian and Albusaidi reviewed the recent negotiating for the relaxation of sanctions, referring to the strong connections between Iran and Oman as well as the two sides' desire to sustain, improve, and deepen mutual relationships. Amir Abdollahian congratulated his Omani colleague for his efforts to create a good, robust, and durable accord nuclear accord, citing the Sultan of Oman's kindness.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.