TEHRAN - Iranians took to the streets in very large numbers to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution. The rallies started in more than 1,000 cities and 10,000 villages across the country. The winter cold, rainfalls and snowfalls could not deter people from participating in the rallies. The Bahman 22 marches (Feb. 11 marches) started with the slogan of “Proud of the Past and Hope on the future”.  This year’s rallies are proving a milestone as the revolution has entered its 40th birthday, while certain extremists such as John Bolton, the national security advisor to U.S. President Donald Trump, had wrongly predicted that the Islamic Revolution would not see its 40th anniversary. The rallies are also a show of strength and firmness that the Iranians will not give in under illegal and tough economic sanctions introduced against the country by the Trump administration in violation of the international 2015 nuclear deal, officially known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). People from all walks of life are participating in the rallies. They wave the national flag to show their love to the country despite the economic hardship created by the sanctions. The Trump administration, encouraged by its regional allies including Israel, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, ordered sanctions against Iran in May 2018 with the aim of inciting public protests inside the country. However, as the massive rallies are showing the pressures are backfiring against the United States. In a speech to the Air Force officers on Friday, Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said “Death to the U.S.” is not a slogan against the American nation. Instead, the Leader insisted, it is a slogan against Trump, Bolton and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Trump, Bolton and Pompeo are not seeing any limits for their animosity against Iran. They use any opportunity to show their disgust for Iran. Trump and his close team’s hatred of Iran have shocked the entire world. Rouhani: Enemy will not achieve its evil goals  Addressing people in Azadi Square (Freedom Square) in Tehran, President Hassan Rouhani said the huge turnout in rallies “means that the enemy will not achieve its evil goals” and that the revolution will “continue its path like the past 40 years”. In a reference to the illegal sanctions and pressures against Iran, Rouhani said the participation of people in marches, including in the megacity of Tehran, indicates that the “one-year plots of the enemy (against Iran) have ended in failure.” ‘Iranians will win over sanctions’ Oil Minister Bijan Zanganeh, who participated in the rallies, said, “We are a resistant nation and will emerge victorious in the sanctions as we emerged victor in the imposed war.” The imposed war refers to Saddam Hussein’s invasion of Iran in the 1980s. ‘Iranians speak with one voice’ Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani also praised the people’s massive turnout in the rallies and said, “The enemies should understand that the roots of the revolution are strong, and in this struggle the Iranian nation speak with one voice.” Larijani who joined marchers prior to his trip to Japan added, “Have no doubt that massive presence of people in the Bahman 22 rallies and their support for the revolution will disappoint the enemies.” On remarks by Bolton who had said that the Islamic Republic would not see its 40th anniversary, the parliament speaker said, “They make such inapt remarks and they should not be taken seriously.” ‘People are loyal to the revolution despite hardships’ Ali Akbar Velayati, a senior foreign policy advisor to Ayatollah Khamenei, said the people are loyal to the Islamic Revolution despite “hardships”. Asked about the U.S. threats against Iran, the veteran politician said, “The Americans have failed to “understand our nation”. He added the Iranian people are “patient” and have seen such threats in their very long history. Velayati, who served as Iran’s foreign minister for 16 years in the 1980s and 1990s, said the 1979 Islamic Revolution brought back independence to the country after 200 years and “we must value this independence, security and freedom” which have been gained through many sacrifices. ‘Iran’s power has bewildered enemies’ Speaking to Bahman 22 marchers in Birjand, the capital of South Khorassan Province, Intelligence Minister Mahmoud Alavi said Iran’s power has bewildered enemies. “Today the Islamic Iran enjoys grandeur and power and the enemies are confused in face of this power,” IRNA quoted Alavi as saying. He also said people’s participation in the Bahman 22 march is “heartening the friends of the revolution” and disappoint enemies, top among Trump. Culture Minister Abbas Salehi drew a comparison between today’s circumstances in Iran to the days of Iraq’s war against Iran, saying even when the capital Tehran was being bombarded by Saddam Hussein’s army people took part in the rallies marking the national day of Bahman 22. In the current situation the enemies have the “illusion” that after 40 years the Iranians have become tired of the pressures and they can force them into submission “but they cannot fully understand the Iranian society”.
 
Rouhani: Rallies are a decisive response to exorbitant demands of foreigners and ill-wishers of Iran President Rouhani issued a statement thanking people for their massive turnout in the Bahman 22 rallies, saying their “magnificent”, “meaningful” and “timely” participation in the great festivities celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution marked a “durable” show of “solidarity” and the “greatness” of the Iranian nation. In an open reference to the Trump administration’s violation of the nuclear deal, Rouhani said the “enemies” by violating their commitments and imposing “cruel sanctions” and launching a massive  propaganda campaign had the illusion that the Bahman 22 rallies this year would be held in a “depressing atmosphere”. Rouhani told the Iranian nation that their participation in the rallies upon a call by the Leader of the Islamic Revolution was a “proper and decisive response to the exorbitant demands of foreigners and ill-wishers of Iran.” The Iranian nation proved that they will not compromise on their independence and dignity, Rouhani noted. “You brave people proved that you have not compromised and will not compromise on your independence and dignity under any circumstances, while not giving up your lofty revolutionary ideals, for which you have sacrificed the dearest members of your family,” Rouhani stated in his message. Rouhani added, “I will bow to the greatness of our dear nation.”    
 
PA/PA All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.