TEHRAN _ The unreasonable and unwise racism of Riyadh in the region has shown itself in Saudi Arabia's foreign policy. This has also had a direct impact on Saudi Arabia's speeches and decisions in the field of international and regional affairs. In this regard, we are faced with a term called Petro Terrorism. Saudi petro-terrorism means using the regime's petrodollars to support various terrorist groups, which are mainly used to fight and restrain Iran and anti-Zionist movements in the region.  Therefore, in analyzing Saudi Arabia's conduct in the region, we should consider this country's use of its oil dollars to promote terrorism.The Saudi family's support for terrorist groups such as ISIS can be measured in this regard. Another point to be considered here is the role of countries like the United States and their relations with Saudi Arabia: those who are trying to make use of the freezing minds of Saudi rulers in favor of their national interest in the region. A policy that is the continuation of the thesis or tactics of "making divisions and ruling". Of course, it should be noted that the British government has also been reconsidering its colonial time and intends to play a tangible role in regional equations. The present paper's idea is that Saudi racism is based on the non-Islamic, inhuman, and foolish stance of petro-terrorism, and that the continuation of this thinking and action can have adverse and dangerous consequences for the region.Undoubtedly, this Saudi approach comes with the support of the United States. In other words, Saudi petro-terrorism is serving the United States in the region. In this equation, the role of Wahhabi thinking shouldn't be ignored. Therefore, the intellectual aspect of such an equation should also be considered for a more complete and more comprehensive analysis of the subject. The fact is that the role of Wahhabism is very evident in shaping the Saudi's mental foundations. The Saudi regime sees its identity in Wahhabism, authoritarianism, petrodollars, rentier economics, self-centered Arabism, and ethnocentrism. In this collection, the Saudi government, along with its other Arab allies, especially in the Persian Gulf region, is working to create a collective identity around itself, with its main opposition to the Islamic Republic of Iran and the discourse of the Islamic Revolution. Saudi Arabia intends to confront with the discourse of the Islamic Revolution of Iran in any possible way. This approach by Riyadh is supported by the United States and the Zionist regime. With this introduction, we will analyze the current situation in the region. Saudi Arabia made a lot of military and intellectual investment on the ISIS terrorist group. In its support of terrorist groups like ISIS, Petro-terrorism has once again shown the backwardness and mustiness of Saudi rulers in false Islamism. It shows that the basis of Saudi racism is wrong and that the continuation of this policy will cost a lot to the entire region and the Islamic world. Saudi Arabia and its supporter, the United States, following the recent developments in Iraq and Syria, Have been hitting hard with a heavy loss in the region. This failure shouldn't merely be seen in the military aspect, but should also be analyzed by its intellectual dimensions. What is certain is that today, after several decades, the legitimacy of the discourse of the Islamic Revolution of Iran, or as the founder of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Imam Khomeini said, pure Muhammadin Islam, against the fake identity of the Wahhabis and Saudi Salafis has been revealed. Independent, anti-terrorist and security seeking identity of the Islamic Republic of Iran have been revealed to the Muslims in the region more than before, and Iran's support for the Resistance Front and the Palestinian resistance have pushed this identity conflict in the interest of Iran, and it's going to consolidate and promote the discourse of the Islamic Revolution of Iran in other grounds. The final point is that Riyadh took a policy of confrontation with our country from the beginning of the glorious victory of the Islamic Revolution in 1979. Saudi Arabia's support for the Ba'athist regime in Iraq should also be considered in this regard. The support was both political and diplomatic as well as financial. The oppression of the poor Shiites of Saudi Arabia (a typical example of which was the execution of Sheikh Nimr) is one of the other approaches taken by the Saudi regime. There are about four million Shiites living in Saudi Arabia, and they live in oil-rich regions of the country. The awakening and Islamic movements in the Arab countries of the region intensified this intellectual confrontation, since many of dictator and rotten allies of the Saudi House were overthrown in these movements. However, Saudi Arabia's strong isolation in regional equilibrium and the failure of Riyadh in this regard can't be ignored. The Saudi regime is now in a strong isolation, while Iran has superiority in the regional equations. ISIS's recent defeat in Syria and Iraq is also indicative of the same subject. Considering Washington's support for Saudi Arabia, this is a major and, at the same time, a common defeat for the White House and the Saudi regime. This is something that the Saudi regime doesn't bear and, unfortunately, perseveres with its persistence in its violent way along with the United States and the Zionist regime. Ultimately, the basis of this policy is petro-terrorism, and Saudi Arabia is attempting to compensate for its heavy loss through this basis.But Saudi's racist approach is basically false, and the thinking which was created by colonialism, has now come to the aid of neo-colonialism and continues the same policy of "make divisions and rule".  No doubt, Saudi Arabia's brutal massacres in Yemen left no dignity for Riyadh in the region, nor in the Islamic world or in the international system. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.