This measure's goal is to reinforce public activities, Kamali said, adding that until the previous year there were just 620 active nongovernmental centers for rehabilitation services in all over the country, which this figure will be increased to 81 centers over current year. Over the past year, these centers have provided different rehabilitation services such as speech-therapy and physiotherapy to about 40,000 people. Saying that the establishment of day care centers for the elderly is one of the other plans of rehabilitation centers this year, Kamali added that according to previous agreements with the Culture House for the Elderly and the Family Culture House, by March 2003 some 22 day care centers for the elderly will be established in every district of the city of Tehran. Accordingly, these centers have been established to use of the elders' experiences and thoughts as well as improving their living standards level. Creation of these centers is a suitable atmosphere to preserve a suitable distance between retirement age and using nursing home and also improving the aged people's health and the conditions, the official stated. In order to the existence of an exalted religious and Iranian culture in the country as well as strength of family foundation, the number of current aged people who are in different nursing home of the country is very less than other countries. Presently over 6,000 of aged people live in the governmental and nongovernmental nursing homes, from which 40 percent are without relatives and 60 percent disabled.
                  Over the past year, these centers have provided different rehabilitation services such as speech-therapy and physiotherapy to about 40,000 people. Saying that the establishment of day care centers for the elderly is one of the other plans of rehabilitation centers this year, Kamali added that according to previous agreements with the Culture House for the Elderly and the Family Culture House, by March 2003 some 22 day care centers for the elderly will be established in every district of the city of Tehran. Accordingly, these centers have been established to use of the elders' experiences and thoughts as well as improving their living standards level. Creation of these centers is a suitable atmosphere to preserve a suitable distance between retirement age and using nursing home and also improving the aged people's health and the conditions, the official stated. In order to the existence of an exalted religious and Iranian culture in the country as well as strength of family foundation, the number of current aged people who are in different nursing home of the country is very less than other countries. Presently over 6,000 of aged people live in the governmental and nongovernmental nursing homes, from which 40 percent are without relatives and 60 percent disabled.
                  Saying that the establishment of day care centers for the elderly is one of the other plans of rehabilitation centers this year, Kamali added that according to previous agreements with the Culture House for the Elderly and the Family Culture House, by March 2003 some 22 day care centers for the elderly will be established in every district of the city of Tehran. Accordingly, these centers have been established to use of the elders' experiences and thoughts as well as improving their living standards level. Creation of these centers is a suitable atmosphere to preserve a suitable distance between retirement age and using nursing home and also improving the aged people's health and the conditions, the official stated. In order to the existence of an exalted religious and Iranian culture in the country as well as strength of family foundation, the number of current aged people who are in different nursing home of the country is very less than other countries. Presently over 6,000 of aged people live in the governmental and nongovernmental nursing homes, from which 40 percent are without relatives and 60 percent disabled.
                  Accordingly, these centers have been established to use of the elders' experiences and thoughts as well as improving their living standards level. Creation of these centers is a suitable atmosphere to preserve a suitable distance between retirement age and using nursing home and also improving the aged people's health and the conditions, the official stated. In order to the existence of an exalted religious and Iranian culture in the country as well as strength of family foundation, the number of current aged people who are in different nursing home of the country is very less than other countries. Presently over 6,000 of aged people live in the governmental and nongovernmental nursing homes, from which 40 percent are without relatives and 60 percent disabled.
                  Creation of these centers is a suitable atmosphere to preserve a suitable distance between retirement age and using nursing home and also improving the aged people's health and the conditions, the official stated. In order to the existence of an exalted religious and Iranian culture in the country as well as strength of family foundation, the number of current aged people who are in different nursing home of the country is very less than other countries. Presently over 6,000 of aged people live in the governmental and nongovernmental nursing homes, from which 40 percent are without relatives and 60 percent disabled.
                  In order to the existence of an exalted religious and Iranian culture in the country as well as strength of family foundation, the number of current aged people who are in different nursing home of the country is very less than other countries. Presently over 6,000 of aged people live in the governmental and nongovernmental nursing homes, from which 40 percent are without relatives and 60 percent disabled.
                  Presently over 6,000 of aged people live in the governmental and nongovernmental nursing homes, from which 40 percent are without relatives and 60 percent disabled.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.