TEHRAN – Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said on Tuesday that a “quick” and “precise” implementation of the agreements signed between Iran and France will improve relations in various areas including politics, economics, science, and culture. Rouhani made the remarks during a meeting with President of the French National Assembly Claude Bartolone who arrived in Tehran late on Monday. Rouhani visited France in January during which a number of major economic agreements were signed. During the trip Iran agreed to buy 118 Airbus aircraft worth around $25 billion. “We are noticing a progress in implementation of some these agreements; a complete implementation of them can create a reform in Tehran-Paris ties,” Rouhani remarked. Rouhani also pointed to the conclusion of the nuclear deal between Iran and great powers which France was also a party, saying, “The nuclear agreement created a new atmosphere for cooperation which should be used in the best way.” He added, “Iran and France have many capabilities and capacities that can be used in line with expansion of cooperation between the two countries and benefits of the two nations.” Iran and the 5+1 group [the five permanent members of the UN Security Council plus Germany] finalized the text of the nuclear agreement (the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action) in Vienna in July 2015. The agreement went into effect in January 2016. “In the prolonged and important negotiations with the 5+1 group, the Islamic Republic of Iran sought to prove the peaceful nature of its nuclear activities and its determination to interact with the world constructively,” noted Rouhani who himself acted as chief nuclear negotiator from 2003 to 2005. The Iranian president added that a “full” and “immediate” fulfilment of the obligations under the nuclear agreement is important to boost mutual trust. Under the agreement Iran is obliged to slow down its nuclear activities and instead all the economic and financial sanctions against the country are removed. Elsewhere, Rouhani highlighted the importance of increase in Iran-France cooperation in fighting terrorism. “Undoubtedly, terrorism is a serious threat against all the counties in the world and we should make efforts in cultural area to prevent the youth from being trapped by the terrorist groups,” the president pointed out. He said that restoring peace to the Middle East region depends on cutting support for terrorism. Pointing to the conflicts in Syria and Iraq, he said that Iran is helping the two countries in their war on terrorism upon requests by the Iraqi and Syrian governments. For his part, Bartolone said Iran and France share close views on international issues and cooperate with each other in resolving many problems. Bartolone also said that “collective efforts” are required in fighting terrorism. He also highlighted Iran’s role in restoring peace to the Middle East region. The president of the French National Assembly also said that Iran has abided by its nuclear commitments, noting that all parties of the deal must fulfil their obligations. Bartolone: We back big French banks trying to do business with Iran Bartolone also said the French National Assembly will back efforts by big French banks for transactions with Iran and also doing investment in the country. He also said during the nuclear negotiations the French parliament strongly supported the talks and today is seriously pushing for a full implementation of the agreement by all sides. Larijnai says Iran, France share common views on regional crises In a joint press conference with Bartolone, Iranian Majlis Speaker Ali Larijani said that Iran and France share similar views on how to settle conflicts in the Middle East. He also said the two countries have good parliamentary ties. “Mr. Bartolone’s trip to Iran will be a turning point in parliamentary relations,” Larijani added. The top French lawmaker said that his trip will help promotion of ties. On Tuesday, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif also met separately with Bartolone during which bilateral ties and cooperation at international level were discussed. ‘Economic opportunities will not remain forever’ In a separate meeting with Bartolone, Supreme National Security Council Secretary Ali Shamkhani said that “economic opportunities will not remain forever”. The countries should not ignore each other’s interests under a pressure by other countries, Shamkhani said in an indirect reference to the U.S. pressure on Paris not to increase its ties with Tehran. He also said that prolongation of the Syrian crisis is harmful to the European countries. He urged France to take more “serious actions” in helping to cut intelligence and financial aid to the terrorist groups. For his part, Bartolone highlighted the necessity of constant campaign against terrorism. He also called for expansion of relations with Iran and said that France is determined to meet its obligations under the JCPOA. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.