The awards are presented in recognition of the leadership, creativity and vision that each leader has demonstrated. Champions of the Earth, UNEP's new global environment awards, were launched in 2004 to recognize the outstanding achievements of individuals and organizations in protecting and improving the environment. UNEP invites nominations from individuals or groups who have made a significant and recognized contribution, regionally or globally, to the protection and sustainable management of the Earth’s environment and natural resources. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) named Dr. Rosa Elena Simeon Negrin, Women’s Environment & Development Organization (WEDO), Dr. Tewolde Behran Gebre Egziabher, Dr. Masumeh Ebtekar, Dr. Mohamed El-Ashry, Prof. Tommy Koh Thong Bee, and Mr. Gorbachev Mikhail Sergeevich as seven leaders in the field of the environment and Champions of the Earth in 2006 for “setting an example for the world to follow.” Dr. Masumeh Ebtekar served as Head of the Department of Environment (DoE) from 1997-2005 during the reformist government of Khatami. The Iranian Department of Environment underwent major re-engineering and restructuring during her tenure and 1500 new posts were appointed, an educational upgrading of the personnel leading to 70% with academic education in 2005. Bringing the attention of both the government and the public to issues related to natural heritage, civil society, education, research, environmental policy, and abatement of Air Pollution, waste management and data and information management are only part of Mrs. Ebtekar’s activities and achievements during her eight-year tenure as Head of the Department of Environment in Iran.
                  Champions of the Earth, UNEP's new global environment awards, were launched in 2004 to recognize the outstanding achievements of individuals and organizations in protecting and improving the environment. UNEP invites nominations from individuals or groups who have made a significant and recognized contribution, regionally or globally, to the protection and sustainable management of the Earth’s environment and natural resources. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) named Dr. Rosa Elena Simeon Negrin, Women’s Environment & Development Organization (WEDO), Dr. Tewolde Behran Gebre Egziabher, Dr. Masumeh Ebtekar, Dr. Mohamed El-Ashry, Prof. Tommy Koh Thong Bee, and Mr. Gorbachev Mikhail Sergeevich as seven leaders in the field of the environment and Champions of the Earth in 2006 for “setting an example for the world to follow.” Dr. Masumeh Ebtekar served as Head of the Department of Environment (DoE) from 1997-2005 during the reformist government of Khatami. The Iranian Department of Environment underwent major re-engineering and restructuring during her tenure and 1500 new posts were appointed, an educational upgrading of the personnel leading to 70% with academic education in 2005. Bringing the attention of both the government and the public to issues related to natural heritage, civil society, education, research, environmental policy, and abatement of Air Pollution, waste management and data and information management are only part of Mrs. Ebtekar’s activities and achievements during her eight-year tenure as Head of the Department of Environment in Iran.
                  UNEP invites nominations from individuals or groups who have made a significant and recognized contribution, regionally or globally, to the protection and sustainable management of the Earth’s environment and natural resources. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) named Dr. Rosa Elena Simeon Negrin, Women’s Environment & Development Organization (WEDO), Dr. Tewolde Behran Gebre Egziabher, Dr. Masumeh Ebtekar, Dr. Mohamed El-Ashry, Prof. Tommy Koh Thong Bee, and Mr. Gorbachev Mikhail Sergeevich as seven leaders in the field of the environment and Champions of the Earth in 2006 for “setting an example for the world to follow.” Dr. Masumeh Ebtekar served as Head of the Department of Environment (DoE) from 1997-2005 during the reformist government of Khatami. The Iranian Department of Environment underwent major re-engineering and restructuring during her tenure and 1500 new posts were appointed, an educational upgrading of the personnel leading to 70% with academic education in 2005. Bringing the attention of both the government and the public to issues related to natural heritage, civil society, education, research, environmental policy, and abatement of Air Pollution, waste management and data and information management are only part of Mrs. Ebtekar’s activities and achievements during her eight-year tenure as Head of the Department of Environment in Iran.
                  Dr. Masumeh Ebtekar served as Head of the Department of Environment (DoE) from 1997-2005 during the reformist government of Khatami. The Iranian Department of Environment underwent major re-engineering and restructuring during her tenure and 1500 new posts were appointed, an educational upgrading of the personnel leading to 70% with academic education in 2005. Bringing the attention of both the government and the public to issues related to natural heritage, civil society, education, research, environmental policy, and abatement of Air Pollution, waste management and data and information management are only part of Mrs. Ebtekar’s activities and achievements during her eight-year tenure as Head of the Department of Environment in Iran.
                  The Iranian Department of Environment underwent major re-engineering and restructuring during her tenure and 1500 new posts were appointed, an educational upgrading of the personnel leading to 70% with academic education in 2005. Bringing the attention of both the government and the public to issues related to natural heritage, civil society, education, research, environmental policy, and abatement of Air Pollution, waste management and data and information management are only part of Mrs. Ebtekar’s activities and achievements during her eight-year tenure as Head of the Department of Environment in Iran.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.