The conservative Javan newspaper ran a story headlined “Terrorists’ uproar against legal punishment” and wrote that “virtual terrorists and Western governments and their supporters” voiced concern against the legal punishment of the rioters and used the hashtag “No to the death penalty”. “Mohsen Shekari is not the first and last one condemned about the recent riots. In the past three months, in addition to the property of many Iranian citizens, the morale of the society has been irreparably damaged. In addition, more than 60 members of the security forces have been killed,” the author said. “The procedure of the judiciary is correct and in accordance with the legal standards,” the author believes. This is while, the Etemad newspaper, in a commentary, said the punishment for Shekari was imprisonment and not execution. Speeding up the execution is another issue raised in the commentary, quoting some experts and attorneys that Shekari’s impulsive execution is not in favor of the government. Making a comparison, it cited Babak Zanjani who was sentenced to death in 2016 for misappropriating government funds and “corruption on earth”, while has not yet been executed. Hamshahri: Westerners looking for excuses against Iran “The Westerners and some opposition groups are trying to create obstacles for Iran’s structures and organizations with false excuses every day,” a former member of the Majlis, Abbas Moghtadaei, told the Hamshahri newspaper. “In this way, they even abuse some international organizations like the United Nations. Although the Islamic Republic attaches importance to interaction with different countries, international institutions, and organizations, at the same time it does not allow any country to interfere in domestic issues. Western governments are in a hybrid war against Iran, which includes media, public opinion, sanctions, military and paramilitary interventions. We emphasize that the judiciary must act with speed, precision and determination, as well as in accordance with the laws, to promote legal and judicial discipline in the country,” he told Hamshahri. Arman-e Emrooz: Unanswered demands of new generations Arman-e Emrooz interviewed Hossein Kanaani Moghaddam, a political activist about the time interval between the protests. “Public protest is a natural reaction of society to shortcomings and wrong decisions, and in every era, new demands are raised. The remarkable fact is that the time interval between the protests in the current conditions has decreased compared to the last decade. Unfulfilled expectations increase day by day and turn into public dissatisfaction. In this case, people no longer see a reason to be patient and wait for the situation to improve, and they decide to take their protest to the authorities and decision-makers by appearing in the streets.  Unfortunately, the governments have caused public discontent to persist by ignoring public opinion and as a result, society is always exposed to chaos. Since the victory of the Islamic Revolution, we have experienced 30 cases of public protest, almost all of which have led to conflict or chaos; of course, the role of foreign enemies was undeniable. However, the governance system has not been successful in managing the situation properly and by insisting on wrong approaches, a movement that could be controlled turned into widespread chaos and affected the entire system,” he said. The newspaper also quoted Ayatollah Javadi Amoli who has said “it is difficult for the people to be religious without a good economy.” Sharq: China’s other side The pro-reform Sharq newspaper wrote that the interesting point of the joint statement of China and Saudi Arabi runs against the position of the two countries against Iran, especially China, which carries the title of “Tehran ally” from the point of view of the conservative faction. The two officials agreed “on the need to strengthen cooperation to ensure the peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear program,” calling on Tehran to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and to “maintain the non-proliferation regime”. Sharq considered China’s action as revealing the other side of itself. Vatan-e Emrooz: Bubble bursts The conservative Vatan-e Emrooz, in a note, discussed an illusion of toppling the Islamic Republic, calling it “a bubble burst”. “The goal was to form a nationwide riot of hundreds of thousands of people. The architects knew from the beginning that he would not be able to bring the majority to the street. The goal was to form a minority that, within the framework of a complex cognitive war, should have come to the conclusion that the time has come to resort to violence. ‘Creating the impression that the Islamic regime is going’, from my point of view, was a game launched intelligently and full of internal and external elegance and complexity to make a part of the Iranian society believe that the work is done and the Islamic Republic is falling. Oddly enough, our shortcomings and ignorance were the biggest help the foreign planners received. However, we stand one step beyond now. Some parts of Iranian society experienced the bitterness of what the riot planners wanted to look like a sweet dream. The system of the Islamic Republic has also got an experience, that I consider ‘new governance’ to be the best description of it,” the author wrote. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.