Speaking in a meeting with Iranian Minister of Agricultural Jihad Mahmoud Hojjati, Ludvigsen urged the two sides to take advantages of existing potentials for enhancing ties. He stressed that the transfer of technology in the fisheries industries and products from Norway to Iran will help expand bilateral relations, IRNA said. He further underscored the need for stable management of aquatic resources, and announced his country's willingness to invest in Iran's fisheries industries. Hojjati, for his part, recalled the limitation of the aquatic resources in free waters, and urged further bilateral cooperation in this respect. He listed investment, cultivation, hunting and marketing as among the main grounds for further bonds between the two countries. At the meeting, the officials also stressed the need for encouraging private sectors to participate in fisheries industries and commerce. Meanwhile Ludvigsen met Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister for Euro-American Affairs Ali Ahani on Wednesday, and called for expansion of mutual ties in fisheries as well as protecting the environment. The Norwegian minister expressed hope that the two states will cooperate in investment and fisheries.
                  He stressed that the transfer of technology in the fisheries industries and products from Norway to Iran will help expand bilateral relations, IRNA said. He further underscored the need for stable management of aquatic resources, and announced his country's willingness to invest in Iran's fisheries industries. Hojjati, for his part, recalled the limitation of the aquatic resources in free waters, and urged further bilateral cooperation in this respect. He listed investment, cultivation, hunting and marketing as among the main grounds for further bonds between the two countries. At the meeting, the officials also stressed the need for encouraging private sectors to participate in fisheries industries and commerce. Meanwhile Ludvigsen met Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister for Euro-American Affairs Ali Ahani on Wednesday, and called for expansion of mutual ties in fisheries as well as protecting the environment. The Norwegian minister expressed hope that the two states will cooperate in investment and fisheries.
                  He further underscored the need for stable management of aquatic resources, and announced his country's willingness to invest in Iran's fisheries industries. Hojjati, for his part, recalled the limitation of the aquatic resources in free waters, and urged further bilateral cooperation in this respect. He listed investment, cultivation, hunting and marketing as among the main grounds for further bonds between the two countries. At the meeting, the officials also stressed the need for encouraging private sectors to participate in fisheries industries and commerce. Meanwhile Ludvigsen met Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister for Euro-American Affairs Ali Ahani on Wednesday, and called for expansion of mutual ties in fisheries as well as protecting the environment. The Norwegian minister expressed hope that the two states will cooperate in investment and fisheries.
                  Hojjati, for his part, recalled the limitation of the aquatic resources in free waters, and urged further bilateral cooperation in this respect. He listed investment, cultivation, hunting and marketing as among the main grounds for further bonds between the two countries. At the meeting, the officials also stressed the need for encouraging private sectors to participate in fisheries industries and commerce. Meanwhile Ludvigsen met Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister for Euro-American Affairs Ali Ahani on Wednesday, and called for expansion of mutual ties in fisheries as well as protecting the environment. The Norwegian minister expressed hope that the two states will cooperate in investment and fisheries.
                  He listed investment, cultivation, hunting and marketing as among the main grounds for further bonds between the two countries. At the meeting, the officials also stressed the need for encouraging private sectors to participate in fisheries industries and commerce. Meanwhile Ludvigsen met Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister for Euro-American Affairs Ali Ahani on Wednesday, and called for expansion of mutual ties in fisheries as well as protecting the environment. The Norwegian minister expressed hope that the two states will cooperate in investment and fisheries.
                  At the meeting, the officials also stressed the need for encouraging private sectors to participate in fisheries industries and commerce. Meanwhile Ludvigsen met Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister for Euro-American Affairs Ali Ahani on Wednesday, and called for expansion of mutual ties in fisheries as well as protecting the environment. The Norwegian minister expressed hope that the two states will cooperate in investment and fisheries.
                  Meanwhile Ludvigsen met Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister for Euro-American Affairs Ali Ahani on Wednesday, and called for expansion of mutual ties in fisheries as well as protecting the environment. The Norwegian minister expressed hope that the two states will cooperate in investment and fisheries.
                  The Norwegian minister expressed hope that the two states will cooperate in investment and fisheries.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.