TEHRAN- Iran’s Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations Amir Saeid Iravani stressed on Tuesday that the UN Security Council is anticipated to condemn the Zionist regime's aggression and terrorist strikes against Syria. Speaking before the Security Council, Iravai said Israel’s “repeated violations of Syria's sovereignty and territorial integrity” constitute “a flagrant violation of international law, international humanitarian law, and the UN Charter.” The statement is as follows: Syria's humanitarian situation is dire, and the country's continued economic difficulties have had a widespread impact. The frightening spike in suspected cholera cases reported across the country has aggravated the country's already precarious humanitarian situation. We commend the UN and its agencies' efforts to provide humanitarian relief to those in need, as well as their cooperation in implementing Resolution 2642. The ongoing unilateral coercive measures imposed by Western countries have exacerbated the humanitarian situation despite the UN's efforts, and, particularly present substantial difficulties to public health and food security. The UN and its humanitarian organizations' work in Syria is also impacted by these illegal actions. Meanwhile, donor countries remain hesitant to contribute the necessary funding for Syria's humanitarian response plan, which, according to the UN report, has not exceeded 42%. We support the eight cross-line delivery of humanitarian aid.   However, a lack of visible progress in the cross-line delivery, as well as inequitable and discriminatory distribution of early recovery projects remain challenging and must be improved based on the resolution. We further emphasize the importance of the cross-border mechanism. We believe that for the subsequent time of extension, the shortcomings in this mechanism and the associated legitimate concerns of the Syrian Arab Republic must be addressed. On the political process, Iran supports convening the next meeting of the Constitutional Committee, as the committee's ongoing work is critical to reaching a political solution. The cessation of the occupation and the full restoration of respect for the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic are prerequisites to any political solution. In the meantime, the Astana format will continue its efforts to bring the crisis to an end and alleviate the sufferings of the Syrian people, and in support of these efforts, during the two-day meeting that was held in Astana on 22 and 23 November 2022,  the senior representatives of the Astana format guarantors emphasized the Constitutional Committee's critical role and reaffirmed their willingness to support ongoing interactions between their members and the Special Envoy as a facilitator in order to ensure long-term stability and effective work of the next sessions of the Committee. They also expressed deep concern about the humanitarian situation emphasizing the need to remove impediments and increase humanitarian assistance to all Syrians across the country without discrimination, or preconditions. The security and stability in the north of Syria can only be achieved by preserving and fully respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country and any military operation in the north of Syria would only make the already challenging humanitarian situation even worst. We, once again, condemn the robbery of Syrian people's natural resources, particularly oil products, in areas occupied by foreign forces. This criminal act is an obvious violation of Syrian territorial sovereignty, relevant Security Council resolutions, and the United Nations Charter. The Security Council must strongly condemn the ongoing aggressions and terrorist attacks of the Israeli regime against Syria. Israeli regime’s repeated violations of Syria's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as its systematic and intentional targeting of civilians and civilian infrastructure, particularly the attacks on commercial airports and humanitarian shipments, are a flagrant violation of international law, international humanitarian law, and the UN Charter. We acknowledge that the United Nations Charter and international law provide the Syrian Arab Republic with a legitimate right to self-defense. We support Syria’s standing in the region and its improved bilateral relations. The international community must support the Syrian government’s ability to achieve economic and social stability, as well as improve the living conditions of the Syrian people. A secure, stable, and prosperous Syria benefits the Syrian people and is in the interests of the region, and the international community. It can also facilitate the safe, dignified, and voluntary return of refugees and internally displaced persons (IDPs) to their original place in Syria while respecting their right to return. Iran continues to support the people and Government of Syria in their efforts to restore the unity and territorial integrity of their country. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.