Head of the Women and Family Committee of the Majlis Dr. Fatemeh Rake'i told IRNA Wednesday that the proposal was made following the talks the women fraction made with President Khatami, in which he approved and underscored efficiency and capability of women to play an active part in higher state managerial posts. Rake'i, a Tehran Deputy, named Chancellor of Al-Zahra University, Zahra Rahnavard, MP Soheila Jelodarzadeh and Vice President Ma'soumeh Ebtekar as the proposed ministers for the future government. She said that the three nominees, in addition to having the required expertise and long record of efficient management are also well known within the country, adding that the government is expected to preserve the status that women deserve in the new cabinet. Rake'i said the three are proposed for ministerial posts at the ministries dealing with social, cultural and scientific affairs. Pointing to the share than women enjoy in the cabinet set-up in other countries, she said Iranian women have never asked for such a share at senior managerial level but expect qualified women to play effective role in the government of reforms. She said the Women Fraction of Majlis believes that women who have been proposed to the president are highly qualified and have the required capabilities and expertise. The MP however called on other members of the cabinet to refrain from magnifying performance of women ministers and expressed hope that upon the approval of the Leader of the Islamic Revolution and the president will women reach the status they deserve. Furthermore, she added, in the meetings the women fraction has held with officials at the ministries of foreign affairs and health and the physical education organization women are expected to be also assigned to the posts of ambassador, cultural attache, heads of hospitals and sports federations. She also expressed hope that appointment of women in such posts as minister, deputy minister and director general in the second term of President Khatami's office will provide a good opportunity for dynamic activities of women and their stronger presence in the next terms of Majlis and future cabinets.
                  Rake'i, a Tehran Deputy, named Chancellor of Al-Zahra University, Zahra Rahnavard, MP Soheila Jelodarzadeh and Vice President Ma'soumeh Ebtekar as the proposed ministers for the future government. She said that the three nominees, in addition to having the required expertise and long record of efficient management are also well known within the country, adding that the government is expected to preserve the status that women deserve in the new cabinet. Rake'i said the three are proposed for ministerial posts at the ministries dealing with social, cultural and scientific affairs. Pointing to the share than women enjoy in the cabinet set-up in other countries, she said Iranian women have never asked for such a share at senior managerial level but expect qualified women to play effective role in the government of reforms. She said the Women Fraction of Majlis believes that women who have been proposed to the president are highly qualified and have the required capabilities and expertise. The MP however called on other members of the cabinet to refrain from magnifying performance of women ministers and expressed hope that upon the approval of the Leader of the Islamic Revolution and the president will women reach the status they deserve. Furthermore, she added, in the meetings the women fraction has held with officials at the ministries of foreign affairs and health and the physical education organization women are expected to be also assigned to the posts of ambassador, cultural attache, heads of hospitals and sports federations. She also expressed hope that appointment of women in such posts as minister, deputy minister and director general in the second term of President Khatami's office will provide a good opportunity for dynamic activities of women and their stronger presence in the next terms of Majlis and future cabinets.
                  She said that the three nominees, in addition to having the required expertise and long record of efficient management are also well known within the country, adding that the government is expected to preserve the status that women deserve in the new cabinet. Rake'i said the three are proposed for ministerial posts at the ministries dealing with social, cultural and scientific affairs. Pointing to the share than women enjoy in the cabinet set-up in other countries, she said Iranian women have never asked for such a share at senior managerial level but expect qualified women to play effective role in the government of reforms. She said the Women Fraction of Majlis believes that women who have been proposed to the president are highly qualified and have the required capabilities and expertise. The MP however called on other members of the cabinet to refrain from magnifying performance of women ministers and expressed hope that upon the approval of the Leader of the Islamic Revolution and the president will women reach the status they deserve. Furthermore, she added, in the meetings the women fraction has held with officials at the ministries of foreign affairs and health and the physical education organization women are expected to be also assigned to the posts of ambassador, cultural attache, heads of hospitals and sports federations. She also expressed hope that appointment of women in such posts as minister, deputy minister and director general in the second term of President Khatami's office will provide a good opportunity for dynamic activities of women and their stronger presence in the next terms of Majlis and future cabinets.
                  Rake'i said the three are proposed for ministerial posts at the ministries dealing with social, cultural and scientific affairs. Pointing to the share than women enjoy in the cabinet set-up in other countries, she said Iranian women have never asked for such a share at senior managerial level but expect qualified women to play effective role in the government of reforms. She said the Women Fraction of Majlis believes that women who have been proposed to the president are highly qualified and have the required capabilities and expertise. The MP however called on other members of the cabinet to refrain from magnifying performance of women ministers and expressed hope that upon the approval of the Leader of the Islamic Revolution and the president will women reach the status they deserve. Furthermore, she added, in the meetings the women fraction has held with officials at the ministries of foreign affairs and health and the physical education organization women are expected to be also assigned to the posts of ambassador, cultural attache, heads of hospitals and sports federations. She also expressed hope that appointment of women in such posts as minister, deputy minister and director general in the second term of President Khatami's office will provide a good opportunity for dynamic activities of women and their stronger presence in the next terms of Majlis and future cabinets.
                  She said the Women Fraction of Majlis believes that women who have been proposed to the president are highly qualified and have the required capabilities and expertise. The MP however called on other members of the cabinet to refrain from magnifying performance of women ministers and expressed hope that upon the approval of the Leader of the Islamic Revolution and the president will women reach the status they deserve. Furthermore, she added, in the meetings the women fraction has held with officials at the ministries of foreign affairs and health and the physical education organization women are expected to be also assigned to the posts of ambassador, cultural attache, heads of hospitals and sports federations. She also expressed hope that appointment of women in such posts as minister, deputy minister and director general in the second term of President Khatami's office will provide a good opportunity for dynamic activities of women and their stronger presence in the next terms of Majlis and future cabinets.
                  The MP however called on other members of the cabinet to refrain from magnifying performance of women ministers and expressed hope that upon the approval of the Leader of the Islamic Revolution and the president will women reach the status they deserve. Furthermore, she added, in the meetings the women fraction has held with officials at the ministries of foreign affairs and health and the physical education organization women are expected to be also assigned to the posts of ambassador, cultural attache, heads of hospitals and sports federations. She also expressed hope that appointment of women in such posts as minister, deputy minister and director general in the second term of President Khatami's office will provide a good opportunity for dynamic activities of women and their stronger presence in the next terms of Majlis and future cabinets.
                  Furthermore, she added, in the meetings the women fraction has held with officials at the ministries of foreign affairs and health and the physical education organization women are expected to be also assigned to the posts of ambassador, cultural attache, heads of hospitals and sports federations. She also expressed hope that appointment of women in such posts as minister, deputy minister and director general in the second term of President Khatami's office will provide a good opportunity for dynamic activities of women and their stronger presence in the next terms of Majlis and future cabinets.
                  She also expressed hope that appointment of women in such posts as minister, deputy minister and director general in the second term of President Khatami's office will provide a good opportunity for dynamic activities of women and their stronger presence in the next terms of Majlis and future cabinets.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.