In its global report "Preventing chronic diseases: a vital investment", the WHO set a goal to reduce the chronic disease death rates by 2 percent annually till 2015. If the goal was achieved, the lives of 36 million people would be saved from chronic diseases in the next 10 years, including 25million in the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia-Pacific (Unescap) region. With the development of urbanization and globalization, the major causes of death and disability have shifted from infectious and parasitic diseases to injuries and chronic diseases, which account for 67 percent of all deaths in the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia-Pacific (Unescap) region, Kim Hak-Su, Unescap executive secretary was quoted by Bangkok Postas. Robert Beaglehole, WHO director on health promotion, surveillance, prevention and management of non-communicable diseases, said chronic diseases are no longer the problems of rich countries, but less developed countries as well. Having a substantial macro-economic impact on the region, chronic diseases could force big countries forego billions of dollars in national income over the following decade. Beaglehole said three main strategies, including healthy diet, regular physical activity and avoidance of tobacco use, could prevent up to 80 percent of premature heart disease, stroke and diabetes and 40 percent of cancer. He called on governmental support along with individual effort to be made to rein the expansion of the diseases. In Thailand, chronic diseases account for 59 percent of all deaths in 2002.
                  If the goal was achieved, the lives of 36 million people would be saved from chronic diseases in the next 10 years, including 25million in the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia-Pacific (Unescap) region. With the development of urbanization and globalization, the major causes of death and disability have shifted from infectious and parasitic diseases to injuries and chronic diseases, which account for 67 percent of all deaths in the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia-Pacific (Unescap) region, Kim Hak-Su, Unescap executive secretary was quoted by Bangkok Postas. Robert Beaglehole, WHO director on health promotion, surveillance, prevention and management of non-communicable diseases, said chronic diseases are no longer the problems of rich countries, but less developed countries as well. Having a substantial macro-economic impact on the region, chronic diseases could force big countries forego billions of dollars in national income over the following decade. Beaglehole said three main strategies, including healthy diet, regular physical activity and avoidance of tobacco use, could prevent up to 80 percent of premature heart disease, stroke and diabetes and 40 percent of cancer. He called on governmental support along with individual effort to be made to rein the expansion of the diseases. In Thailand, chronic diseases account for 59 percent of all deaths in 2002.
                  With the development of urbanization and globalization, the major causes of death and disability have shifted from infectious and parasitic diseases to injuries and chronic diseases, which account for 67 percent of all deaths in the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia-Pacific (Unescap) region, Kim Hak-Su, Unescap executive secretary was quoted by Bangkok Postas. Robert Beaglehole, WHO director on health promotion, surveillance, prevention and management of non-communicable diseases, said chronic diseases are no longer the problems of rich countries, but less developed countries as well. Having a substantial macro-economic impact on the region, chronic diseases could force big countries forego billions of dollars in national income over the following decade. Beaglehole said three main strategies, including healthy diet, regular physical activity and avoidance of tobacco use, could prevent up to 80 percent of premature heart disease, stroke and diabetes and 40 percent of cancer. He called on governmental support along with individual effort to be made to rein the expansion of the diseases. In Thailand, chronic diseases account for 59 percent of all deaths in 2002.
                  Robert Beaglehole, WHO director on health promotion, surveillance, prevention and management of non-communicable diseases, said chronic diseases are no longer the problems of rich countries, but less developed countries as well. Having a substantial macro-economic impact on the region, chronic diseases could force big countries forego billions of dollars in national income over the following decade. Beaglehole said three main strategies, including healthy diet, regular physical activity and avoidance of tobacco use, could prevent up to 80 percent of premature heart disease, stroke and diabetes and 40 percent of cancer. He called on governmental support along with individual effort to be made to rein the expansion of the diseases. In Thailand, chronic diseases account for 59 percent of all deaths in 2002.
                  Having a substantial macro-economic impact on the region, chronic diseases could force big countries forego billions of dollars in national income over the following decade. Beaglehole said three main strategies, including healthy diet, regular physical activity and avoidance of tobacco use, could prevent up to 80 percent of premature heart disease, stroke and diabetes and 40 percent of cancer. He called on governmental support along with individual effort to be made to rein the expansion of the diseases. In Thailand, chronic diseases account for 59 percent of all deaths in 2002.
                  Beaglehole said three main strategies, including healthy diet, regular physical activity and avoidance of tobacco use, could prevent up to 80 percent of premature heart disease, stroke and diabetes and 40 percent of cancer. He called on governmental support along with individual effort to be made to rein the expansion of the diseases. In Thailand, chronic diseases account for 59 percent of all deaths in 2002.
                  He called on governmental support along with individual effort to be made to rein the expansion of the diseases. In Thailand, chronic diseases account for 59 percent of all deaths in 2002.
                  In Thailand, chronic diseases account for 59 percent of all deaths in 2002.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.