According to reports from Sarajevo, the Iranian ambassador expresed the warm greetings of President Mohammad Khatami to his Bosnian counterpart and said that the friendly relations between the two countries can develop during the coming years. The Bosnian president also thanked the Iranian nation and government for the support for the Bosnian nation during the 10-year war. Sadri Also met the Bosnian Foreign Minister and Head of Ministerial Council Zlatko Lagumdzija in Sarajevo on Tuesday. During the meeting, the Iranian envoy presented a copy of his credentials to the Bosnian foreign minister. Recalling both countries historical, bilateral relations and the support of the Iranian government and nation for the Bosnian people over the past years, he stressed the importance of an expansion of ties especially in the economic and trade fields. Zlatko Lagumdzija referred to current developments in the international arena and underlined Sarajevo's contribution to bringing about a more positive and secure world as well as a peaceful co-existence among the various races and religions including Muslims, Serbs and Croatians in his country. He also voiced pleasure over the meeting with the Iranian envoy which comes at the threshold of a forthcoming trip to Tehran and called for both countries to expand bilateral cooperation in all fields.
  The Bosnian president also thanked the Iranian nation and government for the support for the Bosnian nation during the 10-year war. Sadri Also met the Bosnian Foreign Minister and Head of Ministerial Council Zlatko Lagumdzija in Sarajevo on Tuesday. During the meeting, the Iranian envoy presented a copy of his credentials to the Bosnian foreign minister. Recalling both countries historical, bilateral relations and the support of the Iranian government and nation for the Bosnian people over the past years, he stressed the importance of an expansion of ties especially in the economic and trade fields. Zlatko Lagumdzija referred to current developments in the international arena and underlined Sarajevo's contribution to bringing about a more positive and secure world as well as a peaceful co-existence among the various races and religions including Muslims, Serbs and Croatians in his country. He also voiced pleasure over the meeting with the Iranian envoy which comes at the threshold of a forthcoming trip to Tehran and called for both countries to expand bilateral cooperation in all fields.
  Sadri Also met the Bosnian Foreign Minister and Head of Ministerial Council Zlatko Lagumdzija in Sarajevo on Tuesday. During the meeting, the Iranian envoy presented a copy of his credentials to the Bosnian foreign minister. Recalling both countries historical, bilateral relations and the support of the Iranian government and nation for the Bosnian people over the past years, he stressed the importance of an expansion of ties especially in the economic and trade fields. Zlatko Lagumdzija referred to current developments in the international arena and underlined Sarajevo's contribution to bringing about a more positive and secure world as well as a peaceful co-existence among the various races and religions including Muslims, Serbs and Croatians in his country. He also voiced pleasure over the meeting with the Iranian envoy which comes at the threshold of a forthcoming trip to Tehran and called for both countries to expand bilateral cooperation in all fields.
  During the meeting, the Iranian envoy presented a copy of his credentials to the Bosnian foreign minister. Recalling both countries historical, bilateral relations and the support of the Iranian government and nation for the Bosnian people over the past years, he stressed the importance of an expansion of ties especially in the economic and trade fields. Zlatko Lagumdzija referred to current developments in the international arena and underlined Sarajevo's contribution to bringing about a more positive and secure world as well as a peaceful co-existence among the various races and religions including Muslims, Serbs and Croatians in his country. He also voiced pleasure over the meeting with the Iranian envoy which comes at the threshold of a forthcoming trip to Tehran and called for both countries to expand bilateral cooperation in all fields.
  Recalling both countries historical, bilateral relations and the support of the Iranian government and nation for the Bosnian people over the past years, he stressed the importance of an expansion of ties especially in the economic and trade fields. Zlatko Lagumdzija referred to current developments in the international arena and underlined Sarajevo's contribution to bringing about a more positive and secure world as well as a peaceful co-existence among the various races and religions including Muslims, Serbs and Croatians in his country. He also voiced pleasure over the meeting with the Iranian envoy which comes at the threshold of a forthcoming trip to Tehran and called for both countries to expand bilateral cooperation in all fields.
  Zlatko Lagumdzija referred to current developments in the international arena and underlined Sarajevo's contribution to bringing about a more positive and secure world as well as a peaceful co-existence among the various races and religions including Muslims, Serbs and Croatians in his country. He also voiced pleasure over the meeting with the Iranian envoy which comes at the threshold of a forthcoming trip to Tehran and called for both countries to expand bilateral cooperation in all fields.
  He also voiced pleasure over the meeting with the Iranian envoy which comes at the threshold of a forthcoming trip to Tehran and called for both countries to expand bilateral cooperation in all fields.
 
 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.