he told irna that the move has also culminated in poor supervision over the quality of carpet, subsequently loss of market. sabhe went on to say that effective measures have been adopted to raise quality of persian carpets. he said that carpet workshops enjoy exemption from payment of taxes both on sales and purchase. no forex certificates will be necessary for repatriation of foreign cash coming from carpet trade, said sabhe. india, china and pakistan are iran's staunch rivals on the global carpet market, said sabhe. he added that iran's membership in the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is helpful to obviate any imitation of iranian carpets' designs by other countries but it is not enough. in order to get the world trade organization membership, iran should assume an active role in the organization and on the global markets, he said. one can not be optimistic with membership in the wipo and registration of the designs, said sabhe, adding that through qualitative improvement of carpets and informing eventual consumer, one should try to uplift status of the iranian carpet in the international markets. he also urged proper marketing and advertisements for persian carpet.
                  sabhe went on to say that effective measures have been adopted to raise quality of persian carpets. he said that carpet workshops enjoy exemption from payment of taxes both on sales and purchase. no forex certificates will be necessary for repatriation of foreign cash coming from carpet trade, said sabhe. india, china and pakistan are iran's staunch rivals on the global carpet market, said sabhe. he added that iran's membership in the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is helpful to obviate any imitation of iranian carpets' designs by other countries but it is not enough. in order to get the world trade organization membership, iran should assume an active role in the organization and on the global markets, he said. one can not be optimistic with membership in the wipo and registration of the designs, said sabhe, adding that through qualitative improvement of carpets and informing eventual consumer, one should try to uplift status of the iranian carpet in the international markets. he also urged proper marketing and advertisements for persian carpet.
                  he said that carpet workshops enjoy exemption from payment of taxes both on sales and purchase. no forex certificates will be necessary for repatriation of foreign cash coming from carpet trade, said sabhe. india, china and pakistan are iran's staunch rivals on the global carpet market, said sabhe. he added that iran's membership in the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is helpful to obviate any imitation of iranian carpets' designs by other countries but it is not enough. in order to get the world trade organization membership, iran should assume an active role in the organization and on the global markets, he said. one can not be optimistic with membership in the wipo and registration of the designs, said sabhe, adding that through qualitative improvement of carpets and informing eventual consumer, one should try to uplift status of the iranian carpet in the international markets. he also urged proper marketing and advertisements for persian carpet.
                  no forex certificates will be necessary for repatriation of foreign cash coming from carpet trade, said sabhe. india, china and pakistan are iran's staunch rivals on the global carpet market, said sabhe. he added that iran's membership in the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is helpful to obviate any imitation of iranian carpets' designs by other countries but it is not enough. in order to get the world trade organization membership, iran should assume an active role in the organization and on the global markets, he said. one can not be optimistic with membership in the wipo and registration of the designs, said sabhe, adding that through qualitative improvement of carpets and informing eventual consumer, one should try to uplift status of the iranian carpet in the international markets. he also urged proper marketing and advertisements for persian carpet.
                  india, china and pakistan are iran's staunch rivals on the global carpet market, said sabhe. he added that iran's membership in the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is helpful to obviate any imitation of iranian carpets' designs by other countries but it is not enough. in order to get the world trade organization membership, iran should assume an active role in the organization and on the global markets, he said. one can not be optimistic with membership in the wipo and registration of the designs, said sabhe, adding that through qualitative improvement of carpets and informing eventual consumer, one should try to uplift status of the iranian carpet in the international markets. he also urged proper marketing and advertisements for persian carpet.
                  in order to get the world trade organization membership, iran should assume an active role in the organization and on the global markets, he said. one can not be optimistic with membership in the wipo and registration of the designs, said sabhe, adding that through qualitative improvement of carpets and informing eventual consumer, one should try to uplift status of the iranian carpet in the international markets. he also urged proper marketing and advertisements for persian carpet.
                  one can not be optimistic with membership in the wipo and registration of the designs, said sabhe, adding that through qualitative improvement of carpets and informing eventual consumer, one should try to uplift status of the iranian carpet in the international markets. he also urged proper marketing and advertisements for persian carpet.
                  he also urged proper marketing and advertisements for persian carpet.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.