TEHRAN - John McCain's name is familiar especially to those who have been watching the political developments of the United States since 2008.This Arizona's Extremist Senator is a Republican.  He was the party's candidate for the 2008 presidential election. In that election, McCain was defeated by Barack Obama and couldn't enter the White House. McCain is currently in the Senate, but he is one of the main opponents of the United States President Donald Trump.  The point here about McCain is his direct support for unrests and turmoil in Iran. In 2009, hehas also supported the unrests in our country. Anyhow, just like other American politicians, McCain experienced a tough defeat against the nation of Iran and the Islamic Republic of Iran in this regard. "YeniSafak", a newspaper published in Turkey, wrote in its report that anti-Iranian Senator of the U.S. Congress, along with the US intelligence Service have played a very active role in recent unrests in our country. YeniSafak has also emphasized that John McCain, the Republican Senator andthe chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and CIA have played a major role in recent unrest in Iran. YeniSafak said on its website: United States Department of Defense, started its plans for creating nightmares with Iran. The White House is fully supporting these protests. In Iran's recent unrests, besides the monarchists, John McCain, who played an important role in the events of Syria along with the CIA, plays a major role. Right after the beginning of the unrests in Iran, Senator John McCain issued a statement officially supporting these unrests. McCain, who suffers from brain cancer, had a history of meeting with the head of the "Mojahedin-e-Khalq"(Monafeghin)  terrorist group and attending their banquets. The Republican senator and the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Armed Services hasalso backed up the recent turmoil in Iran. He announced that America is standing next to Iranian protesters. The fact is that John McCain has long been the loser in the political equations of the United States. In the course of the unrests in 2014 in Ukraine, John McCain announced his direct support for Yanukovych's opponents. The result of this intervention has been the wretched state of instability that has dominated Ukraine since 2014. Though being in a terrible physical state, McCain continues his conspiracies against the nations of the world. The Arizona Senator, John McCain, has been diagnosed with brain cancer for some time now. The Mayo Clinic Hospital in Phoenix, Arizona, states: Early diagnosis suggests that Senator McCain is suffering from Glioblastoma (a highly malignant form of cancer that spreads quickly due to its association with a large network of blood vessels in the brain). Johns McCain is 80 years old and was hospitalized due to blood clots and went under the surgery. John McCain's illness had wide reactions In Washington followed. In any case, McCain is considered an opponent of the nation of Iran and the Iranian regime and, during the recent turmoil, he once again revealed its opposition to Iran. However, John McCain will be defeated like any other U.S. politician. The JCPOA is one of the issues that McCain has been opposed to. In 2015, McCain expressly opposed the nuclear deal and didn't support it. John McCain and Lindsay Graham are two senators who opposed the nuclear deal with Iran from the outset. They voiced their opposition during the congressional vote in 2015. However, these two senators, whose extreme positions towards Iran have always been taken into consideration by the American media, are now confused about the way and the kind of aggressive and wicked position of Trump against the nuclear deal. On the one hand, they can't deny their opposition to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and on the other hand, they feel at risk from the effects of the current strategy of Trump towards the nuclear deal with Iran. John McCain stated in one of his most recent positions: I believe that Iran should be kept responsible through imposing new sanctions on its ballistic missile program, imposing sanctions against Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), imposing sanctions against Iranians accused of violating human rights and intensifying the use of arms sanctions in Tehran! McCain has tried not to take a clear stand in refusing or supporting the current approach of Trump towards the JCPOA.  The 81-year-old Senator of Arizona, has said that the Congress is willing to work with Trump to resume the negotiations on the nuclear deal. However, he has not yet explicitly announced his comments on the formal breach of the JCPOA and the return of nuclear sanctions against Iran. Finally, "the losing Senator" is a proper title for John McCain, the Senator of Arizona. McCain has become a symbol of the failure of Republicans against the Democrats in the US political equations and during the presidential election of 2008, as well as a symbol of the defeat of American politicians against Iran.  During the recent riots in Iran, McCain thought that these unrests were going to be permanent and that they needed to be supported! But he once again had miscalculations about Iran and our nation. Undoubtedly, not only McCain, but also other American politicians were hit hard in this regard, andin the future, if they continue their hostile and aggressive approach, they will experience even harder defeats. But McCain will no longer have an opportunity to understand this.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.