"The seminar will be held on November 14 with the presence of foreign ambassadors to Iran and members of Iran’s friendship associations with other countries," stated Mostafa Ghahremani. "In the seminar in addition to the role of foreign embassies in the development of tourism, the comprehensive plan of Iran's tourism market and also the goals of tourism in other countries will be discussed," he added. Also shortly before the event, a symposium of government policies in tourism industry will be held in northern Iran with the presence of 70 ambassadors and foreign representatives. Turkish company pledges to implement hotel construction project in Iran A Turkish company has planned to build hotels in Iranian cities. The company’s managing director has signed an agreement with the director of Iran's Tourism Development Company worth 100 million dollars for construction of hotels in different places. The Turkish side has promised that in the first stage they manage the hotels together with Iranians but later the management would be handed over to the Iranian side. However, about a month ago an official from the East Azarbaijan Hoteliers Society had said that the Turkish company had canceled its cooperation with the ITDC and that the ITDC was to implement the project on its own. Also the same company that has constructed hotels in Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan plans to hold meetings in Iran during which to teach hotel management and tourism skills to young applicants.
                  "In the seminar in addition to the role of foreign embassies in the development of tourism, the comprehensive plan of Iran's tourism market and also the goals of tourism in other countries will be discussed," he added. Also shortly before the event, a symposium of government policies in tourism industry will be held in northern Iran with the presence of 70 ambassadors and foreign representatives. Turkish company pledges to implement hotel construction project in Iran A Turkish company has planned to build hotels in Iranian cities. The company’s managing director has signed an agreement with the director of Iran's Tourism Development Company worth 100 million dollars for construction of hotels in different places. The Turkish side has promised that in the first stage they manage the hotels together with Iranians but later the management would be handed over to the Iranian side. However, about a month ago an official from the East Azarbaijan Hoteliers Society had said that the Turkish company had canceled its cooperation with the ITDC and that the ITDC was to implement the project on its own. Also the same company that has constructed hotels in Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan plans to hold meetings in Iran during which to teach hotel management and tourism skills to young applicants.
                  Also shortly before the event, a symposium of government policies in tourism industry will be held in northern Iran with the presence of 70 ambassadors and foreign representatives. Turkish company pledges to implement hotel construction project in Iran A Turkish company has planned to build hotels in Iranian cities. The company’s managing director has signed an agreement with the director of Iran's Tourism Development Company worth 100 million dollars for construction of hotels in different places. The Turkish side has promised that in the first stage they manage the hotels together with Iranians but later the management would be handed over to the Iranian side. However, about a month ago an official from the East Azarbaijan Hoteliers Society had said that the Turkish company had canceled its cooperation with the ITDC and that the ITDC was to implement the project on its own. Also the same company that has constructed hotels in Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan plans to hold meetings in Iran during which to teach hotel management and tourism skills to young applicants.
                  Turkish company pledges to implement hotel construction project in Iran A Turkish company has planned to build hotels in Iranian cities. The company’s managing director has signed an agreement with the director of Iran's Tourism Development Company worth 100 million dollars for construction of hotels in different places. The Turkish side has promised that in the first stage they manage the hotels together with Iranians but later the management would be handed over to the Iranian side. However, about a month ago an official from the East Azarbaijan Hoteliers Society had said that the Turkish company had canceled its cooperation with the ITDC and that the ITDC was to implement the project on its own. Also the same company that has constructed hotels in Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan plans to hold meetings in Iran during which to teach hotel management and tourism skills to young applicants.
                  A Turkish company has planned to build hotels in Iranian cities. The company’s managing director has signed an agreement with the director of Iran's Tourism Development Company worth 100 million dollars for construction of hotels in different places. The Turkish side has promised that in the first stage they manage the hotels together with Iranians but later the management would be handed over to the Iranian side. However, about a month ago an official from the East Azarbaijan Hoteliers Society had said that the Turkish company had canceled its cooperation with the ITDC and that the ITDC was to implement the project on its own. Also the same company that has constructed hotels in Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan plans to hold meetings in Iran during which to teach hotel management and tourism skills to young applicants.
                  The company’s managing director has signed an agreement with the director of Iran's Tourism Development Company worth 100 million dollars for construction of hotels in different places. The Turkish side has promised that in the first stage they manage the hotels together with Iranians but later the management would be handed over to the Iranian side. However, about a month ago an official from the East Azarbaijan Hoteliers Society had said that the Turkish company had canceled its cooperation with the ITDC and that the ITDC was to implement the project on its own. Also the same company that has constructed hotels in Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan plans to hold meetings in Iran during which to teach hotel management and tourism skills to young applicants.
                  The Turkish side has promised that in the first stage they manage the hotels together with Iranians but later the management would be handed over to the Iranian side. However, about a month ago an official from the East Azarbaijan Hoteliers Society had said that the Turkish company had canceled its cooperation with the ITDC and that the ITDC was to implement the project on its own. Also the same company that has constructed hotels in Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan plans to hold meetings in Iran during which to teach hotel management and tourism skills to young applicants.
                  Also the same company that has constructed hotels in Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan plans to hold meetings in Iran during which to teach hotel management and tourism skills to young applicants.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.