A sanctuary for millions of exotic birds, the wetlands of Mesopotamia are the most important in the Middle East. With an oasis of regional dimension, they have offered fertile land, water and air for centuries to millions of inhabitants. But they are extremely fragile and are in the line of fire. These ecosystems provide sustenance to countries such as Turkey, Iraq, Syria and Iran. The heart of the wetlands is very close to the city of Basra, one that has consistently suffered the most in terms of gunfire on the part of U.S. and British troops. The 1,600-plus oil wells in Iraq are a powder keg for the wetlands, together with pollution caused by the use of conventional weapons. Previously, the wetlands supplied the region’s large-scale shrimp industry as well as 50% of fresh fish in Iraq. These areas also witnessed the arrival of thousands of ducks and geese which filled the local markets. Specialists and environmentalists believe that the destruction of the wetlands has affected the regional climate and had had a serious impact on the habitat of almost 400 species of birds. At least three species of incomparable beauty have disappeared in Iraq: the Sacred Ibis, the African Darter and the Goliath Heron. Oil wells in flames, air polluted with radioactivity, toxic substances, contaminated aquifers, and thousands of people left dead, sick or displaced are part of the scene being left by the war. This demonstrates that Bush and his allies have absolutely no concern whatsoever over the damage caused to life and the environment by their military operations. (Source: Granma Internacional)
                  These ecosystems provide sustenance to countries such as Turkey, Iraq, Syria and Iran. The heart of the wetlands is very close to the city of Basra, one that has consistently suffered the most in terms of gunfire on the part of U.S. and British troops. The 1,600-plus oil wells in Iraq are a powder keg for the wetlands, together with pollution caused by the use of conventional weapons. Previously, the wetlands supplied the region’s large-scale shrimp industry as well as 50% of fresh fish in Iraq. These areas also witnessed the arrival of thousands of ducks and geese which filled the local markets. Specialists and environmentalists believe that the destruction of the wetlands has affected the regional climate and had had a serious impact on the habitat of almost 400 species of birds. At least three species of incomparable beauty have disappeared in Iraq: the Sacred Ibis, the African Darter and the Goliath Heron. Oil wells in flames, air polluted with radioactivity, toxic substances, contaminated aquifers, and thousands of people left dead, sick or displaced are part of the scene being left by the war. This demonstrates that Bush and his allies have absolutely no concern whatsoever over the damage caused to life and the environment by their military operations. (Source: Granma Internacional)
                  The 1,600-plus oil wells in Iraq are a powder keg for the wetlands, together with pollution caused by the use of conventional weapons. Previously, the wetlands supplied the region’s large-scale shrimp industry as well as 50% of fresh fish in Iraq. These areas also witnessed the arrival of thousands of ducks and geese which filled the local markets. Specialists and environmentalists believe that the destruction of the wetlands has affected the regional climate and had had a serious impact on the habitat of almost 400 species of birds. At least three species of incomparable beauty have disappeared in Iraq: the Sacred Ibis, the African Darter and the Goliath Heron. Oil wells in flames, air polluted with radioactivity, toxic substances, contaminated aquifers, and thousands of people left dead, sick or displaced are part of the scene being left by the war. This demonstrates that Bush and his allies have absolutely no concern whatsoever over the damage caused to life and the environment by their military operations. (Source: Granma Internacional)
                  Previously, the wetlands supplied the region’s large-scale shrimp industry as well as 50% of fresh fish in Iraq. These areas also witnessed the arrival of thousands of ducks and geese which filled the local markets. Specialists and environmentalists believe that the destruction of the wetlands has affected the regional climate and had had a serious impact on the habitat of almost 400 species of birds. At least three species of incomparable beauty have disappeared in Iraq: the Sacred Ibis, the African Darter and the Goliath Heron. Oil wells in flames, air polluted with radioactivity, toxic substances, contaminated aquifers, and thousands of people left dead, sick or displaced are part of the scene being left by the war. This demonstrates that Bush and his allies have absolutely no concern whatsoever over the damage caused to life and the environment by their military operations. (Source: Granma Internacional)
                  Specialists and environmentalists believe that the destruction of the wetlands has affected the regional climate and had had a serious impact on the habitat of almost 400 species of birds. At least three species of incomparable beauty have disappeared in Iraq: the Sacred Ibis, the African Darter and the Goliath Heron. Oil wells in flames, air polluted with radioactivity, toxic substances, contaminated aquifers, and thousands of people left dead, sick or displaced are part of the scene being left by the war. This demonstrates that Bush and his allies have absolutely no concern whatsoever over the damage caused to life and the environment by their military operations. (Source: Granma Internacional)
                  Oil wells in flames, air polluted with radioactivity, toxic substances, contaminated aquifers, and thousands of people left dead, sick or displaced are part of the scene being left by the war. This demonstrates that Bush and his allies have absolutely no concern whatsoever over the damage caused to life and the environment by their military operations. (Source: Granma Internacional)
                  This demonstrates that Bush and his allies have absolutely no concern whatsoever over the damage caused to life and the environment by their military operations. (Source: Granma Internacional)
                  (Source: Granma Internacional)
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.