TEHRAN _ As time goes by, we see an increase in the general and universal hatred of the Zionist occupying regime. In recent years, and in surveys conducted in European countries, most of the citizens of the green continent have supported the embargo on Zionist regime by the European Union. Although Zionist officials are trying to construe this issue as anti-Semitism, the reality is that “fight against Zionism” is increasing in Europe day by day.  The latest decision of the U.S. President, Donald Trump regarding the announcement of Jerusalem as the capital of the Zionist regime, has once again led to an increase in public hatred in Europe over the president and prime minister of the Zionist regime. Netanyahu's recent trip to the European Union can also be analyzed in this context. The trip took place without a formal invitation from the European Union. This is a good indication of Netanyahu's feeling of isolation and humiliation. During his meeting with the Foreign Relations council of the European Union, Benjamin Netanyahu, the prime minister of the occupying regime of Jerusalem, called on the European Union to follow Donald Trump's approach towards Quds. Also, Netanyahu once again spoke about what he was calling "anti-Semitism" in Europe.  Federica Mogherini, the current High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, also stressed that Netanyahu's trip, which is considered the first trip of a Zionist regime official to the headquarters of the European Union during the last 22 years, has signaled the visit as a historic one. At the same time, Mogherini emphasized that the European Union will be subject to "international agreements" in relation to Quds issue. There are some points about the visits of the prime minister of the occupying regime of Quds with the European authorities, which should be taken into consideration: Firstly, during the visit of “Jared Kushner”, the son in law of the President of the United States, to the Israeli authorities and Netanyahu in Tel Aviv in August, full agreement was reached on the declaration of Quds as the capital of the Zionist regime by Trump. Subsequently, during the September meeting between Netanyahu and Trump in New York, declaration of Quds as the Zionist capital was examined and finalized by both sides. 
The meeting stipulated that Washington and Tel Aviv, following the announcement of this controversial position, would take joint action to control and manage the positions of European countries regarding Quds. In other words, Netanyahu and Trump are seeking to "manage European countries’ positions" after the announcement of the White House's recent decision. Netanyahu's trip to the European Union is also planned on the same lines. A contemplation on the position of the European Union regarding the issue of the declaration of Quds as the capital of Israel by Trump is required here. As we can conclude by Federica Mogherini’s words, the opposition of the European Union authorities to the recent action of Trump is a "subjunctive opposition." In other words, the European Union has condemned the actions of the United States President following the negative influence of Trump's position on the so-called Middle East peace process and the formation of two states. Meanwhile, key variables such as "supporting the people of Palestine" and "Quds belonging to Palestine and the Islamic world" aren’t basically part of this opposition. Therefore, we should be careful in examining the European Union's position towards Quds.
The opposition of the European Union to Trump’s recent action, is different from the real and legal opposition of the Palestinian people, and especially the resistance movements. By decoding Mogherini's remarks, we come to know that Europe merely calls for direct participation in the process of forming two governments, and rejects Trump's decision since it has damaged the process and has led to a reduction in the power of maneuver in the Palestinian reconciliation process.  Thirdly, during the last decade, the Zionist leaders have always used the word "anti-Semitism" as a codename for the begging of diplomacy and the support of European countries. They try to analyze the "hatred toward Zionism" in Europe, which is increasing day by day among the public opinion of the member states and non-members of the European Union, in the form of "anti-Semitism", and thus, get some privileges of the European countries.
 On the other side, the performance of the three European countries of Britain, Germany and France, has always been in order to complete the Zionist psychological puzzle. However, European public opinion is today more aware than ever about the nature of the Zionist regime. As a result, the “fight against Zionism” is now more evident than ever.
 Obviously, European authorities have no longer the power to persuade their citizens to "support the Zionist regime." Today, Netanyahu and other Zionist officials are considered as criminals and usurpers not only in the region, but also in Europe, and this trend will surely continue in future. Therefore, any single game by the European Union on the United States and the Zionist regime’s ground will face the anger of public opinion and, consequently, it would be of heavy political and social costs.
 Although in recent years, European countries have opposed to actions such as settlements of the Zionist regime in the Occupied Territories, or opposition to announcement of Quds as Israel’s Capital, but such opposition has not been enough to satisfy the public opinion. No doubt, the European dual play towards Palestine has come to an end. In this equation, taking a soft approach by the EU authorities towards Netanyahu and Trump and their demands, will be evaluated as a political suicide in the field of European foreign policy. Will European officials finally become aware of their deep misgivings over the Palestinian issue during the last decades? Will they refine their strategic approach to the issue of Palestine? These are questions that will be answered in the near future. However, any unwise action by European officials and their conformity with the Zionist regime and the United States will lead to the confrontation of the public opinion. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.