In its editorial, the reformist Etemad newspaper wrote that Iranians should not feel deep sorrow for the failure of the national team against the U.S. as life has much more to offer. The confrontation of Iran and America football teams has appeared sensitive as the result of the match has an effect on determining the World Cup winner, as well as the international political issues between the governments of Iran and the U.S.  “However, I believe that we can observe several points: First of all, the team players and the coaching staff should try to get out of politics, regardless of the results they get. Individual players can have political affiliations and biases, but in the national team they must be present as a member, unless they refuse to play, which is also their right.  Second, any result obtained has no effect on the fate of Iranians or their international relations. Neither positive nor negative. After these competitions, this is us and the continuation of life and efforts to build it. And the third point is that any action from any side that is aimed at polarizing society and people is condemned in advance,” Abbas Abdi wrote. Javan: World Cup diplomacy losers Javan, a conservative newspaper, wrote a story headlined “An Unfinished Dream” in reference to Iran’s failure to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in the math against the United States. The newspaper said, “The Zionists, with all the cost and efforts of dozens of media, social networks and colorful hired people who have been calling out for Iranophobia, did not receive attention and support of spectators and tourists of other countries, except for some Western citizens. This is the image of the World Cup in diplomacy and regional competition, where the United States hoped to achieve the dream of regional elimination of Iran with joy in the colorful JCPOA, but in the breadth of the region from the subcontinent to the shores of the Mediterranean and the Red Sea, America is the loser of the game,” the newspaper reported in a note.  Farhikhtegan: Reasons for human rights resolution In an interview with Abdolreza Farjirad, an expert on international issues, Farhikhtegan addressed the human rights resolution that was passed against Iran a few days ago.  “This human rights resolution, which was approved on Thursday (Nov. 24) in Geneva, and the resolution that was passed last week (Nov. 17) in the meeting of the (IAEA) Board of Governors in Vienna, are moving in the same direction depending on several factors. First, the internal problems that happened in Iran caused the European and American sides to be under the pressure of public opinion to react to it.  Second, it can be a reaction to Iran’s unwillingness to sign the nuclear agreement over the past two years. The West believe that the agreement had reached the signing stage and the work was finalized if Iran has not suddenly stopped.  Third reason is about the Westerners’ idea regarding military cooperation between Iran with Russia in view of the Ukraine conflict. They believe that Iran has entered a strategic game and made them angry.” Iran: Follow Fakhrizadeh path The pro-government Iran newspaper pointed to the remarks of Minister of Defense Amir Mohammad Reza Ashtiani and the ministry’s measures to follow the path of martyr Mohsen Fakhrizadeh on the anniversary of his assassination. “Assassination of the prominent scientists shows the deep hatred of enemies for the Islamic Republic’s independence, and on the other hand, it indicates the correctness of the country’s road map. After the martyrdom of Fakhrizadeh, the Ministry of Defense put a serious and effective plan into operation, in order to strengthen, stabilize and continue the path of the martyr and promote research and innovation activities,” Ashtiani said, pointing to the establishment of defense research and innovation organization. Vatan-e Emrooz: “Woman, Life, Freedom” slogan is against women “Although it is now clear to many of us, the events of the last two months are not a women’s revolution, nor can it basically be called a revolution, and its nature is a subversive conspiracy based on creating ‘waves’ on social media. But for some people who still set hopes on the slogan “Women, Life, Freedom” and are looking for their demands, it should be explained how this movement has turned into its opposite,” Raha Abdollahi authored in a commentary in the conservative Vatan-e Emrooz newspaper. “Hijab is a manifestation of chastity and regulates the relationship between men and women in society, and without it, sexual stimulation imposes mental pressure on the male nerves and provokes violence, and women are the first victims of this violence. It is desirable to have a society with hijab in which women are seen with their humanity, because in a society without hijab, men are entertained and will stop progressing. So it is not difficult to understand what the slogan ‘Woman, Life, Freedom’ seeks and where it is going to lead Iranian women. It is enough to hear the demands of its leaders and supporters and the things they do to achieve it, to understand that this so-called women’s revolution is the path prepared by Iran’s enemies to destroy the Iranian society,” she wrote. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.