The paradoxical approaches taken by the European authorities is definitely one of its kind! Over the past months, Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, has repeatedly emphasized that the EU can no longer rely on the United States to secure its interests.  However, the German Chancellor held secret and hidden negotiations with the U.S. government and Trump to resolve Europe's economic and security problems and crises.  In other words, there is a significant difference between the speeches and actions of the European authorities regarding the EU's independence from Washington. Here are some points that need to be taken into consideration: 1. U.S. President Donald Trump is one of the main opponents of the existing structure in Europe! He has come to this conclusion that the collapse of the United Europe will provide the United States with great economic growth among its allies. The White House therefore monitors the simultaneous destruction of the Eurozone and the European Union as essential goals. This is the main reason for Trump's support for nationalist and anti-EU movements in Europe. Recently, Donald Trump has officially urged French President Emmanuel Macron to pull his country out of the EU to benefit from more U.S.-France ties! Also, the U.S. president has asked Theresa May, the British prime minister, to sue the European Union for making barriers in Brexit talks. Trump has gone even further, and warned Theresa May that she should choose between integrating in the European Economic structure and having economic relations with the United States! Together, these statements and stances show that Trump is working hard to achieve his main goal in Europe, which is the collapse of the European Union. 2. Although some may think that confronting the United Europe is the secret target of the U.S. President, Trump's behavior suggest that he has no reluctance to declare his opposition to the EU and the Eurozone. Trump believes that the collapse of the European Union will lead to an increase in his power and would intensify his dominance on the European players. Hence, the President of the United States is trying to manage the EU's collapse from an economic and commercial perspective. It should not be forgotten that during the 2016 presidential campaigns, nationalist and anti-EU movements were Trump's only supporters in Europe, and other politicians affiliated with the Social Democratic or Conservative movements in Europe (which currently hold the power) wished that the Democrats and Hillary Clinton could win the election. Europe is now facing a phenomenon called "Trump". In spite of this, the way European authorities try to deal with the White House is still based on a kind of deterrent idealism. Unlike countries such as China and Canada, which have given a strong response to imposing tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, European authorities have not yet taken a determined decision against the United States and the Trump government. On the other hand, European leaders continue to resolve the differences between themselves and the Trump government on the through negotiation. It is as if the European leaders have not yet realized the deep opposition of Trump with the EU and the Eurozone. They are still trying to reduce the U.S. president's "conflicts" with the EU to some sort of "superficial disagreement", which is exactly what the president of the United States and his entourage want!  Undoubtedly, the current retreat of the EU authorities before Trump and their failure to enter the phase of "confrontation with the White House" should be interpreted as "EU's quiet suicide". The continuation of this process will lead to further pressures on the European Union, and subsequently, the position of nationalist and anti-EU groups within Europe will be strengthened. Besides, we should take this fact into account that with the advent of more than one hundred far-right representatives to the European Parliament during the 2014 parliamentary elections, the process of "collapse of the United Europe" has actually begun. Right now in countries such as Austria, Italy, Sweden, and even France and Germany, nationalist groups have been able to politically strengthen their position, and even find way to the top of political equations of some of these countries. The most important factor that can save Europe from current crises is to strengthen the Europe's independence in the international system. The symbol and objective example of the strengthening of such an independence is "standing against the United States". But that's exactly what the European authorities have forgotten! It seems as if European officials hesitate to consider the significant presumption of "Trump's opposition to the United Europe" in their behavioral and verbal calculations. They are still thinking and deciding in the phase of "interacting with the White House", and they are even willing to give their NATO Ally some advantages. But if the EU doesn't enter the phase of "confronting the U.S." and merely try to control Trump's decisions and policies, its destiny will be nothing but collapse and destruction. This confrontation calls for putting an end to the Europeans' play on the U.S. ground; a precondition that has not yet been fulfilled by EU member states. Eventually, the Green Continent is at one of the most critical periods of its political, economic and security life. Indeed, how can we imagine that Europe, by continuing its current submission to the United States, can get out of the existing crises?! All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.