TEHRAN- A member of the political bureau of the Ansarallah movement, Muhammad al-Bukhaiti, has told the media that Yemen will not be accepting "a permanent or long truce while the U.S. and Saudi Arabian aggression and siege" continues. Muhammad al-Bukhaiti has pointed out that Sanaa "has undergone major development in the field of naval missiles, which will have an active role in resolving the battle in the event that the siege is not lifted." The armistice between Yemen and the U.S.-backed Saudi coalition has yet to be renewed with the truce having expired on October 2. In August, the United Nations announced the extension of the truce, which had entered into force on April 2, for two months and was extended twice for an additional two months. Sanaa accuses foreign companies of using the siege on Yemen to plunder the country’s natural resources making it extremely difficult for the government to pay the salaries of civil servants. This is one of the main reasons that the extension of truce has failed with Yemen citing the disastrous humanitarian effect on Yemeni families already living in poverty. The demand from Yemen is clear. The siege must be lifted and the natural resources of the country must be left to the people of Yemen to pay the salaries.  The spokesman for the Yemeni armed forces, Brigadier General Yahya Saree, has called on investors in Saudi Arabia and the UAE to “transfer their investments to another country,” stressing that “investment in the UAE and Saudi Arabia is full of risks” for them. In a social media post, Saree said, "My brother investor, in order for us not to lose more, you must transfer your investment from an aggressor country to another, as investing in it is fraught with risks, such as the UAE and Saudi Arabia," adding that "the opportunity is there." Al-Bukhaiti added that "the countries of aggression are preventing ships from entering Yemen by force of arms," stressing that the Yemeni forces "will respond with a similar measure." Before the introduction of the UN-mediated truce, Yemeni forces used homemade drones and missiles to conduct a series of retaliatory attacks targeting Saudi state oil facilities that pushed global oil prices high. Experts believe this put pressure on the Saudi side to accept a truce ending some 8 years of Saudi bombardment. The top Yemeni politician has confirmed that the Yemeni forces maintain "the ability and the audacity to strike the Saudi and Emirati oil facilities," stressing that this will happen in the event that Yemen’s humanitarian “demands are not met." Al-Bukhaiti explained that "the demands of the Yemeni people are just," highlighting that "if they are not met, then striking the depths of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates is within our rights." He called for an increase in the number of flights (leaving and entering the country) as well as their destinations, the opening of the country’s ports and the payment of salaries, saying that "the continuation of the siege means the continuation of the war because the aggression prevents the entry of ships to Yemen." Speaking about the UN attempt to extend the truce, al-Bukhaiti indicated that Sanaa "cannot accept a permanent or long-term truce amid the continuation of the aggression and siege," repeating that Yemen will be forced to strike Saudi and Emirati oil installations once more if the humanitarian demands are not met. Touching on the United States’ role in the war on Yemen, the member of the political bureau insists that "America is unwilling to stop the war because the continuation of the war between Arab and Islamic countries works in its favor," adding that "the leaders of Saudi Arabia, the UAE and America know our seriousness in the necessity of achieving our demands." Al-Bukhaiti added that "prolonging the war on Yemen is in the interests of both the U.S. and the Israelis, and that is why Washington is pushing for its continuation." The Ansarallah movement official has also revealed that "the UAE decided at a certain stage to stop its participation in the siege of Yemen, but it was subjected to pressure from the United States and Israel." The Supreme Economic Committee in Sanaa earlier announced it had sent final messages to the companies involved in looting the sovereign wealth of Yemen, in order to finally stop the theft in accordance with a specific deadline. The committee says this will be implemented upon directives set by the President of the Supreme Political Council, Mahdi al-Mashat. The committee sent the notice to all companies and entities that the looting of Yemeni sovereign wealth must come to a permanent halt, saying "companies and entities bear full responsibility in the event of non-compliance to stop looting Yemeni sovereign wealth." A member of Yemen’s negotiating delegation, Abdul-Malik Al-Ajri, expressed his concern about the humanitarian crisis on social media saying "the worry is about the continued deprivation of employees from their salaries for the eighth year." He pointed out that "the idea of agreeing to deprive any employee of their salary is an evil idea." He added that "there are two options, either to pay the salaries of the employees, or to bear the responsibility for the return of the war." Saree has also called on foreign companies plundering Yemen's wealth to “take the warning of the leader of the revolution (Sayyed Abdul-Malik al-Houthi) seriously." Yemen says it has made its position clear to international officials including the UN mediator and European Union Coordinator for political affairs about the necessity of disbursing the salaries of all employees and pensions, and ending the arbitrary restrictions on the port of Hodeidah and Sanaa airport. With the expiry of the six-month ceasefire in the war-torn country, advocacy groups are taking the side of Yemen and demanding the administration of U.S. President Joe Biden to pressure Washington’s top ally Saudi Arabia in lifting the Yemen blockade. Demand Progress’ policy adviser Cavan Kharrazian says "Saudi Arabia's tactic of collective punishment has created untold suffering for tens of millions of people and contributed to hundreds of thousands of deaths." "Whether or not warring parties can reach a new agreement to extend the truce, the U.S. has a moral and political obligation to use any and all points of leverage with Saudi Arabia …  Saudi Arabia's disastrous foreign policy and complicity in blatant human rights abuses against the Yemeni people is a dark stain on the U.S.'s reputation and credibility," Kharrazian added. "We are going on eight years of fueling this war and humanitarian disaster. Enough is enough." Shortly after taking office last year, President Biden pledged to end the United States' backing for Saudi "offensive operations" in Yemen. Since then his administration has come under fire for continuing logistical support, warplane maintenance and arms sales to Saudi forces. Despite his campaign promise to treat the kingdom as a "pariah”, he greeted the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman with a fist bump in Jeddah this summer. Erik Sperling, executive director of Just Foreign Policy, another group that has hit out at the failure to extend the truce, says laying the blame on the government in Sanaa is unfair while “the Saudi-led coalition that has brutally bombed and blockaded its neighbor for over seven years”. Hassan El-Tayyab, legislative director for Middle East policy at Friends Committee on National Legislation, noted that "Saudi Arabia's tactic of collective punishment has created untold suffering for tens of millions of people and contributed to hundreds of thousands of deaths." "The Biden administration must take urgent action to compel Saudi Arabia to completely lift this blockade as a humanitarian act for the sake of millions of Yemenis in desperate need." That demand was echoed by Dr. Aisha Jumaan, president of the Yemen Relief and Reconstruction Foundation, who asserted that the blockade "is the main contributor to the spread of starvation and diseases and is considered a war crime. The Yemeni people should not be held hostage to peace negotiations or the truce. The blockade should be lifted unconditionally." All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.