Not many people can leave a long, lasting impression on us for life, yet Imam Musa al-Sadr was certainly an exception. It is undeniable that the radiant legacy of Imam Musa al-Sadr is unlikely to lose its brilliance any time soon. Indeed, there are many lit lanterns in the skyline of humanity, but we yearn to a lantern which glows with creativity and authenticity, holds a treasury of values and noble attitudes and creates colors of life too wide-ranging to be encompassed here… but perhaps we may be successful in finding a few of them. As the thirty-ninth memory of the absence of Imam Musa al-Sadr and his two companions dawns upon us, the question presents itself: What effect did this absence have on the Lebanese, Arab and international scenes? Or, if I may rephrase: Do we need Imam al-Sadr? The answer to this question came from Bishop Michael Abras, the Tyre Greek Catholics Archbishop, who said: “In the conflicts today, the human need arises, more than any time, for as-Sadr’s thought. That thought of constant peace, glowing wisdom and the power of tolerance. That thought of deep insight which crosses all borders for the service of humanity, equality between all mankind and building a society which is cosmopolitan, homogeneous, united, undivided and free from wrangles”. Lebanon is probably the greatest victim of al-Sadr’s absence. For in this small country, the Imam’s genius manifested itself in his capability to penetrate the various and often contradictory parts of society. This country, an oasis of coexistence where 18 sects live together, and which was meant to be a cultural example to be followed, proved that Imam al-Sadr can never be forgotten. Yet, ever since he stood in its churches in 1975, delivering speeches and holding meeting for the sake of the essence of humanity, this experiment was ultimately fruitless, and was never repeated so far. In a country where the south suffers under occupation, war devours the sons of the one homeland, deprivation marginalizes and excludes, and corruption infects all the reaches of society… the Imam made a long history of confrontation and struggle: a strike to remove deprivation, protests, rallies and visits to distressed areas. At a time when Lebanon was turning into a war zone, while the voice of reason fell on deaf ears, the Imam –among others- tried to attract the people who maintained their living conscience in an attempt to stop the bloodshed. We can only ask: How far are we today from such attitudes and values? The Imam always considered himself an integral part of the Arab family, and he left a lasting mark on every Arab country he visited. It is impossible here to cite all of the Imam’s journeys, but a quick look to his travels will help us understand the extent of the predicament caused by his absence. Having settled in Lebanon, the Imam went to Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, Syria, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi, Jordan and Mauritania to lecture, explain, coordinate, and carry Lebanon’s concerns and the Arab World. In total, the Imam went on 94 journeys where he employed his relations and capabilities to close the gaps between several parties concerning various issues, hoping to end the crushing Lebanese Civil War. Furthermore, with the Imam’s absence, Palestine not only lost a voice but a protector who had dedicated everything to its cause. The world now is filled with violence and war. Rejection, hatred and enmity directed at religious, ethnic and racial minorities is proof that latent fears are still embers raging under the ashes, capable of exploding at any moment. Yet, there was someone who moved these embers and transformed them into positive energy based on the principles of “a common humanity means harmony between us”, and “Lebanon, in its human reality, is called to perform a cultural role in the world through a sublime level of coexistence, and through its role in the Arab-European dialogue”. That was the Imam, who began before anyone else, so he attended the Papal Coronation in 1963, lectured in France on peace and beliefs in 1974 and visited Africa to inspect the affairs of the Lebanese community there and consolidate relations of the expatriate Lebanese with their second homelands. So, out of care for the human being, who is the Divine Trust on this earth, the Imam never hesitated to travel all over the world to bring sides close through a language of dialogue and mutual understanding. Today, and with rising global clash between cultures, religions and sects, involving an enlightened figure such as Imam al-Sadr is an absolute necessity to build a base of coexistence in accordance with human values rather than religion, language or race. The Arab aphorism says: “In a dark night, the full moon is sorely missed”. This is true indeed, but we don’t miss the full moon now, we direly need it to shed light in darkness. And now, as we toil in this dark night, the question is how we can take back our full moon? How do we resolve this predicament? The total solution to actively following up the issue of the absence of the Imam and his two brethren is to secure means of supporting the official follow up committee, and for the committee to study effective means which fit the obstacles facing its work. Nonetheless, we can cite the following examples, ideas and suggestion in this respect:
1-    The Lebanese government should implement what was mentioned in the ministerial statement ratified by the parliament with respect to the support of the follow up committee. 2-    The League of Arab States should exert pressures on Libya to cooperate in this issue, beating in mind that Libya did little to help with this issue in contrast to the many promises in this respect. 3-    The committee should continue to appeal to international parties (organizations or states) to access information from witnesses and suspects, and to endeavor to open Libya for work and investigation and apply an inspection plan for places which were not revealed and where the detention may occur and continue to occur. 4-    The committee should not spare any means to reach its objectives, even if it was through individuals and friends. 5-    All stakeholders should provide support for the committee so that it can have more time for its work, and provide appreciation for what its members did so far.
6-    The Islamic Republic of Iran has an active role through which it can support the committee through coordination and getting access to states and parties relevant to the case. 7-    A media plan should be developed to provide the current issue with more exposure in Arab, Islamic and international spheres, and with a level worthy of the Imam’s sacrifice as a caller for dialogue and peace, and the founder of resistance against Israel. 8-    National consensus concerning this issue must be maintained in Lebanon. Normalization of relationship with Libya must be prevented unless its government cooperates with us. 9-    The principles of this issue must be consolidated into the public opinion so that it would be affected by rumors and dubious narratives which have neither proof nor logic. 10-    Each opportunity to enter Libya to activate investigations in it must be used and attended. Libyan judges and security forces are to be encouraged to give priority for this case, as the crime of kidnap where time is of essence should not be delayed.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.