“With the understanding that we should save our oil and gas resources for the future generations and with the consideration of the fact that all advanced countries seek an energy replacement for having a clean environment… we are interested in using nuclear energy,” said Khatami who chairs the International Institute for Dialogue among Cultures and Civilizations. The former reformist president said Iran is a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), and its civilian nuclear activities are under the control of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The IAEA member states have right to nuclear technology and other members are obliged to help them to peacefully use the technology, he explained. Khatami pointed to the Zionist regime in the Middle East which has not signed the NPT and has about 200 to 400 nuclear warheads. “Three countries in the region have nuclear weapons and have not signed the NPT and are not members of the IAEA, hence the world should put pressure on them, not on Iran” which wants to use nuclear energy for civilian purposes as its “legal right,” he added. Israel, Pakistan and India are three countries in the region which have not signed the NPT. Khatami asked UN Security Council permanent members Russia and China to put the nuclear issue back on the track of dialogue by recognizing Iran’s nuclear rights. “Russia and China have good relations with Iran, and based on the United Nations Charter, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the IAEA Statute, they can push for a solution through dialogue, the first condition of which is recognition of Iran’s right,” he suggested.
                  The former reformist president said Iran is a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), and its civilian nuclear activities are under the control of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The IAEA member states have right to nuclear technology and other members are obliged to help them to peacefully use the technology, he explained. Khatami pointed to the Zionist regime in the Middle East which has not signed the NPT and has about 200 to 400 nuclear warheads. “Three countries in the region have nuclear weapons and have not signed the NPT and are not members of the IAEA, hence the world should put pressure on them, not on Iran” which wants to use nuclear energy for civilian purposes as its “legal right,” he added. Israel, Pakistan and India are three countries in the region which have not signed the NPT. Khatami asked UN Security Council permanent members Russia and China to put the nuclear issue back on the track of dialogue by recognizing Iran’s nuclear rights. “Russia and China have good relations with Iran, and based on the United Nations Charter, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the IAEA Statute, they can push for a solution through dialogue, the first condition of which is recognition of Iran’s right,” he suggested.
                  The IAEA member states have right to nuclear technology and other members are obliged to help them to peacefully use the technology, he explained. Khatami pointed to the Zionist regime in the Middle East which has not signed the NPT and has about 200 to 400 nuclear warheads. “Three countries in the region have nuclear weapons and have not signed the NPT and are not members of the IAEA, hence the world should put pressure on them, not on Iran” which wants to use nuclear energy for civilian purposes as its “legal right,” he added. Israel, Pakistan and India are three countries in the region which have not signed the NPT. Khatami asked UN Security Council permanent members Russia and China to put the nuclear issue back on the track of dialogue by recognizing Iran’s nuclear rights. “Russia and China have good relations with Iran, and based on the United Nations Charter, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the IAEA Statute, they can push for a solution through dialogue, the first condition of which is recognition of Iran’s right,” he suggested.
                  Khatami pointed to the Zionist regime in the Middle East which has not signed the NPT and has about 200 to 400 nuclear warheads. “Three countries in the region have nuclear weapons and have not signed the NPT and are not members of the IAEA, hence the world should put pressure on them, not on Iran” which wants to use nuclear energy for civilian purposes as its “legal right,” he added. Israel, Pakistan and India are three countries in the region which have not signed the NPT. Khatami asked UN Security Council permanent members Russia and China to put the nuclear issue back on the track of dialogue by recognizing Iran’s nuclear rights. “Russia and China have good relations with Iran, and based on the United Nations Charter, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the IAEA Statute, they can push for a solution through dialogue, the first condition of which is recognition of Iran’s right,” he suggested.
                  “Three countries in the region have nuclear weapons and have not signed the NPT and are not members of the IAEA, hence the world should put pressure on them, not on Iran” which wants to use nuclear energy for civilian purposes as its “legal right,” he added. Israel, Pakistan and India are three countries in the region which have not signed the NPT. Khatami asked UN Security Council permanent members Russia and China to put the nuclear issue back on the track of dialogue by recognizing Iran’s nuclear rights. “Russia and China have good relations with Iran, and based on the United Nations Charter, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the IAEA Statute, they can push for a solution through dialogue, the first condition of which is recognition of Iran’s right,” he suggested.
                  Israel, Pakistan and India are three countries in the region which have not signed the NPT. Khatami asked UN Security Council permanent members Russia and China to put the nuclear issue back on the track of dialogue by recognizing Iran’s nuclear rights. “Russia and China have good relations with Iran, and based on the United Nations Charter, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the IAEA Statute, they can push for a solution through dialogue, the first condition of which is recognition of Iran’s right,” he suggested.
                  Khatami asked UN Security Council permanent members Russia and China to put the nuclear issue back on the track of dialogue by recognizing Iran’s nuclear rights. “Russia and China have good relations with Iran, and based on the United Nations Charter, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the IAEA Statute, they can push for a solution through dialogue, the first condition of which is recognition of Iran’s right,” he suggested.
                  “Russia and China have good relations with Iran, and based on the United Nations Charter, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the IAEA Statute, they can push for a solution through dialogue, the first condition of which is recognition of Iran’s right,” he suggested.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.