The cave was discovered in the 1960's by a group of French and English zoologists and cave experts, and consists of several parts. The first section of the cave -- which is open to the public -- consists of two halls called Maryam and Kouhan Shotor. About 750 meters of the cave has already discovered and explored. Experts estimate that about 110 litters per second of pure, clear water runs through the cave. Some 850 meters into the cave is a section named "Purgatory", which is 220 meters long and where the river reaches the ceiling, blocking further exploration for the time being. Cave expert believe that a glass tunnel needs to be built to allow passage through the Purgatory section. Also, 1,000 meters from the entrance stands perhaps the most beautiful pool in the world -- 12 meters deep, it is called the Crystal Hall, with stalagmites and stalactites providing the most exquisite of decors, which also produce harmonious sounds when touched. Some 1,500 meters into the cave one comes across the magical Bride Hall, made of crystal-like rocks, where visitors are required to cross barefooted in order to avoid polluting the rocks and protect the inverted-umbrella-like structures seen in the Bride Hall. Stalactites found in the cave are so delicate that break with the slightest stroke. There are also four beautiful and wonderful waterfalls 2,700 from the entrance, with heights varying between 10 to 12 meters. Cave experts believe that exploration of other parts of the cave requires a major project to cut through a huge rock located 3,700 meters into the cave.
                  The first section of the cave -- which is open to the public -- consists of two halls called Maryam and Kouhan Shotor. About 750 meters of the cave has already discovered and explored. Experts estimate that about 110 litters per second of pure, clear water runs through the cave. Some 850 meters into the cave is a section named "Purgatory", which is 220 meters long and where the river reaches the ceiling, blocking further exploration for the time being. Cave expert believe that a glass tunnel needs to be built to allow passage through the Purgatory section. Also, 1,000 meters from the entrance stands perhaps the most beautiful pool in the world -- 12 meters deep, it is called the Crystal Hall, with stalagmites and stalactites providing the most exquisite of decors, which also produce harmonious sounds when touched. Some 1,500 meters into the cave one comes across the magical Bride Hall, made of crystal-like rocks, where visitors are required to cross barefooted in order to avoid polluting the rocks and protect the inverted-umbrella-like structures seen in the Bride Hall. Stalactites found in the cave are so delicate that break with the slightest stroke. There are also four beautiful and wonderful waterfalls 2,700 from the entrance, with heights varying between 10 to 12 meters. Cave experts believe that exploration of other parts of the cave requires a major project to cut through a huge rock located 3,700 meters into the cave.
                  Experts estimate that about 110 litters per second of pure, clear water runs through the cave. Some 850 meters into the cave is a section named "Purgatory", which is 220 meters long and where the river reaches the ceiling, blocking further exploration for the time being. Cave expert believe that a glass tunnel needs to be built to allow passage through the Purgatory section. Also, 1,000 meters from the entrance stands perhaps the most beautiful pool in the world -- 12 meters deep, it is called the Crystal Hall, with stalagmites and stalactites providing the most exquisite of decors, which also produce harmonious sounds when touched. Some 1,500 meters into the cave one comes across the magical Bride Hall, made of crystal-like rocks, where visitors are required to cross barefooted in order to avoid polluting the rocks and protect the inverted-umbrella-like structures seen in the Bride Hall. Stalactites found in the cave are so delicate that break with the slightest stroke. There are also four beautiful and wonderful waterfalls 2,700 from the entrance, with heights varying between 10 to 12 meters. Cave experts believe that exploration of other parts of the cave requires a major project to cut through a huge rock located 3,700 meters into the cave.
                  Some 850 meters into the cave is a section named "Purgatory", which is 220 meters long and where the river reaches the ceiling, blocking further exploration for the time being. Cave expert believe that a glass tunnel needs to be built to allow passage through the Purgatory section. Also, 1,000 meters from the entrance stands perhaps the most beautiful pool in the world -- 12 meters deep, it is called the Crystal Hall, with stalagmites and stalactites providing the most exquisite of decors, which also produce harmonious sounds when touched. Some 1,500 meters into the cave one comes across the magical Bride Hall, made of crystal-like rocks, where visitors are required to cross barefooted in order to avoid polluting the rocks and protect the inverted-umbrella-like structures seen in the Bride Hall. Stalactites found in the cave are so delicate that break with the slightest stroke. There are also four beautiful and wonderful waterfalls 2,700 from the entrance, with heights varying between 10 to 12 meters. Cave experts believe that exploration of other parts of the cave requires a major project to cut through a huge rock located 3,700 meters into the cave.
                  Cave expert believe that a glass tunnel needs to be built to allow passage through the Purgatory section. Also, 1,000 meters from the entrance stands perhaps the most beautiful pool in the world -- 12 meters deep, it is called the Crystal Hall, with stalagmites and stalactites providing the most exquisite of decors, which also produce harmonious sounds when touched. Some 1,500 meters into the cave one comes across the magical Bride Hall, made of crystal-like rocks, where visitors are required to cross barefooted in order to avoid polluting the rocks and protect the inverted-umbrella-like structures seen in the Bride Hall. Stalactites found in the cave are so delicate that break with the slightest stroke. There are also four beautiful and wonderful waterfalls 2,700 from the entrance, with heights varying between 10 to 12 meters. Cave experts believe that exploration of other parts of the cave requires a major project to cut through a huge rock located 3,700 meters into the cave.
                  Also, 1,000 meters from the entrance stands perhaps the most beautiful pool in the world -- 12 meters deep, it is called the Crystal Hall, with stalagmites and stalactites providing the most exquisite of decors, which also produce harmonious sounds when touched. Some 1,500 meters into the cave one comes across the magical Bride Hall, made of crystal-like rocks, where visitors are required to cross barefooted in order to avoid polluting the rocks and protect the inverted-umbrella-like structures seen in the Bride Hall. Stalactites found in the cave are so delicate that break with the slightest stroke. There are also four beautiful and wonderful waterfalls 2,700 from the entrance, with heights varying between 10 to 12 meters. Cave experts believe that exploration of other parts of the cave requires a major project to cut through a huge rock located 3,700 meters into the cave.
                  Some 1,500 meters into the cave one comes across the magical Bride Hall, made of crystal-like rocks, where visitors are required to cross barefooted in order to avoid polluting the rocks and protect the inverted-umbrella-like structures seen in the Bride Hall. Stalactites found in the cave are so delicate that break with the slightest stroke. There are also four beautiful and wonderful waterfalls 2,700 from the entrance, with heights varying between 10 to 12 meters. Cave experts believe that exploration of other parts of the cave requires a major project to cut through a huge rock located 3,700 meters into the cave.
                  There are also four beautiful and wonderful waterfalls 2,700 from the entrance, with heights varying between 10 to 12 meters. Cave experts believe that exploration of other parts of the cave requires a major project to cut through a huge rock located 3,700 meters into the cave.
                  Cave experts believe that exploration of other parts of the cave requires a major project to cut through a huge rock located 3,700 meters into the cave.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.