TEHRAN - The plan that allegedly brings an end to the 70-year-old Palestinian-Israeli conflict has been dubbed the “deal of the century”. It is no such thing. The “deal” has emerged as U.S. support for Israel has reached an all-time peak. This is happening after the Arab Spring moves and while the Palestinian Authority remains ineffective and resistance is countered at every turn, and the Arab and Islamic countries are suffering from countless problems. The United States and Israel are breaking international laws right and left. The parties involved in this “deal of the century”: - The Zionist regime, where all its demands are met - Jordan orients but can’t do anything constructive -Egypt seems to be moving under pressure, parallel to this plan or for any other particular reason - The Palestinian Authority (PA), seems to serve the occupiers and coordinate with them for a false security, has few options. - Trump and Kushner, who pursue both their electoral and economic interests and Israel’s - The Arab Persian Gulf rich countries and posing no opposition to the deal, especially Saudi Arabia - The United States is calling for a billion dollar outlay to be paid for the deal -The most significant issues: Jerusalem, displaced people, refugee’s right to return, borders and settlements, Palestinian resistance Disabilities: followed by Palestinian Intifada which led it in the opposite direction. The popular opposition to the Arab countries and the consequences for the cooperative regimes in this agreement. Jordan should play its proper and effective role while Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, who has the warm ties with U.S. and Israel, has advanced Egypt's conditions so that it can safely go along without fear of popular reaction. Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas (Abu Mazen) or Fatah leader Mohammad Dahlan have ties to the Zionist regime, preventing them from resisting effectively and opposing U.S.-Israel diktat. They will accept the deal. The Persian Gulf countries are considered “like a milking cow” and immensely wealthy by Trump. They would fall within less than a week if the United States and the Zionist regime withdrew theirs support so they need to stay in line with the deal. It’s blackmail of a sort. The strategy of the “deal of the century” Poverty never prevented the arming of Gaza and their entry into the wars. The blockade had no effect on resistance programs, and it is clear that the ability of resistance groups in Gaza remains for now. But the strategy of the “deal of the century” is to bring oppressed Palestinians just enough prosperity so they become indifferent about the deal and don’t oppose it with further war. The main composer of the deal is Jared Kushner, advisor to Trump and his son in law. It follows two hypotheses. The first is to provide an economic package that is difficult to oppose and use of the economic boycott against leaders who oppose this deal. The second is the consent of US allies, especially Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan and the UAE. Since Trump entered the Oval Office, Jered Kushner, Trump's Middle East envoy Jason Greenblatt and U.S. Ambassador to Israel David Friedman are working hard on the success of the “deal of the century”. But still, it seems the plan is dead at birth despite all the pressure on ordinary Palestinians. The U.S. has cut funds for UNWRA, left the UN Human Rights body and withdrawn from UNESCO, all to favor Israel. The U.S. is simply and clearly trying to advance an Israeli agenda. The deal comes about while the United States and the Zionist regime have failed in Syria. The now seek to destroy the axis of resistance and eliminate all opposition and create an atmosphere of submission. After the axis of resistance victory in Syria, Washington and Tel Aviv followed with the “deal of the century” to snuff out any further gains regionally. Saudi Arabia wants the Palestinians to accept Abu Dis village as a capital of sorts. The escalation of the financial and economic blockade of Iran, Syria and Lebanon is to prevent them from confronting the “deal of the century”. But the resistance movement is aware of the dangers of the “deal of the century” and will continue to support the Palestinians and neutralize terrorist groups in Syria. The desperation and frustration that the Americans and Zionists and their Arab allies have faced as a result of failures in Syria, Yemen and Iraq, have been obvious. In Al Hudaydah, the aggressors have not won anything so far. In Iraq, the elections were disappointing for Riyadh and Washington. The coordination between Iraqi Al Hadid al-Sha'bi and the Syrian army's forces has been strengthened on both sides of the border, causing a devastating blow to U.S. plans to continue the war around Syria. The regional and international balance power is changing on the ruins of American unilateralism. The new balance provides conditions for the Palestinians to resist new challenges. It is undeniable that the “deal of the century” arrives stillborn. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.