TEHRAN - The president of the United States Donald Trump announced a few months ago the transfer of the American embassy in Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and emphasized the need for its operation. The U.S. decision to go ahead with the plan against the Occupation Quds has sparked world reactions as well as various Palestinian groups. Saeb Erekat, secretary General of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) Executive Committee said Washington's decision to move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem on the anniversary of the Palestinian occupation disrupts Muslims and Arabs and terminates the two-state solution. The Islamic Jihad Movement, in a statement condemning the U.S. decision to transfer its embassy to the occupied Quds, emphasized that the transfer of the U.S. embassy to Quds on the 70th anniversary of the occupation of Palestine, illustrates the U.S. ignorance of aggression and crimes against the Palestinian nation and overall the Islamic and Arab Ummah. The movement argued that the decision was illegitimate and unlawful, and proves that the United States endangers the region's stability and security, and supports terrorism and the crimes of Israel against the Palestinian people. Meanwhile, Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, has announced that it will be prepared to deal with the American decision against Quds. Undoubtedly, the Zionist lobby is considered to be the strongest and wealthiest lobby in the US political arena and covers it all, from parties and major institutions, to political organizations and mass media in the United States that is why the support of this minority is one of the requirements for American politicians to get ahead. The request for the transfer of the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem has always been raised by lobbyists and Zionist leaders since the 1990s, but Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama have refused to do so for the high political cost of it. However, Donald Trump, with the issue of law enforcement on the land and the embassy's transfer, ensured that the lobby is robust. Trump, above all, is a businessman. He knows all too well that the great capitalists of the world are generally Jewish and Zionists. Trump seriously portraying himself as a Zionist supporter, conveys this message that the United States and his administration are full supporter of Tel Aviv. That is how Trump will attract massive funds to America. Another US objective is to relocate its embassy to Jerusalem to legitimize the Zionist regime. Despite the passage of more than seventy years, since 1948, the Zionists have not been able to validate their existence, and their legitimacy has been questioned for so long. The United States not only has failed to legitimize the Zionist regime, but also it aroused controversy. Today, more than ever before even the European nations express disgust at Zionists.   Meanwhile, the soft stance of the Arab world and the countries of the Islamic world have also played an important role in the decision of the Americans to transfer their embassy to Jerusalem. If the Islamic world and the Arab world had been united and adopted a single position against the Americans, today we would not have seen Washington crossing the red line. Even the European countries did nothing to halt the White House plan, and only suffered symbolic actions such as the threat of the European ambassadors being absent at the opening ceremony of the Israeli embassy in Jerusalem. The US is one of the countries that has always adopted a position of support for the negotiations, albeit with the support of the occupation regime of Quds. The relocation of the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem is a blow to the compromise negotiations and makes the Third Intifada flaming past. The Zionist regime spends a lot of money on public diplomacy and media in order to restore its image on the international scene annually. However, since 1967, international pressure has intensified, and after the Israeli army invaded the Palestinian people, international and political pressures have risen to the Jewish leaders of the occupied territories. On the other hand, Palestine itself has always been one of the centers of crisis and tension in the region after its occupation by the Zionists, the relocation of the embassy to Jerusalem could widen the scope of the crisis. A German newspaper wrote that “the transfer of the American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem not only brings about new unrest in the Palestinian territories, but also an anti-American riot in the Arab world.” While it seems that, regardless of the very wishy-washy positions of Arab countries like Egypt, Saudi Arabia and some Persian Gulf states towards the Zionist regime, we all have witnessed a massive wave of martyrdom operations by the Palestinian resistance groups against our soldiers and settlers are Zionists. Based on this, martyrdom operations can assist the Palestine resistance axis; in particular, the timing of the transfer of the Washington embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem will be a major trigger, and the Zionists will be opposed to the choice of this very tragic time. They will be taken out.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.