He added traditions and sayings of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) is very enlightening. Speaking in the third scientific meeting of the conference, al-Helali said, "Enemy is trying to postpone Muslims' awareness through his advanced sciences." Referring to the Lebanese victory in war against Zionists, the grand mufti said, "Enemies are trying to create disunity in the Islamic world." Chairman of Senegal Islamic Center Sheikh Abdul-Mona'm al-Zeyn as the second speaker in the meeting underlined the importance of "Consultation" for better administration of government and said the philosophy of consultation as a campaign against corruption and cruelty should be institutionalized. Libyan researcher and scholar Sheikh Ahmed al-Qata'ni said the purpose of Islamic education and spiritual training is moral values. He added, " Shia and Sunni Muslims must follow the principles, because Islam is a perfect religion." The last speaker of the meeting was Sheikh Ahmad Mobbaleghi, a scholar from Iran who said 'Takfir'( Accusing other Muslims of heresy) in the Islamic world has become a dangerous and destructive threat. Quoting Supreme Leader of the Islamic revolution, Mobbaleghi said, "A comprehensive decision should be taken concerning unity among Muslims and any measure which hurts the unity should be avoided." The 20th International Conference on Islamic Unity was inaugurated here Friday with a speech by Expediency Council Chairman Ayatollah Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani on the occasion of birthday anniversary of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) as well as Imam Sadeq (AS). The conference wrapped up its work yesterday.
                  Chairman of Senegal Islamic Center Sheikh Abdul-Mona'm al-Zeyn as the second speaker in the meeting underlined the importance of "Consultation" for better administration of government and said the philosophy of consultation as a campaign against corruption and cruelty should be institutionalized. Libyan researcher and scholar Sheikh Ahmed al-Qata'ni said the purpose of Islamic education and spiritual training is moral values. He added, " Shia and Sunni Muslims must follow the principles, because Islam is a perfect religion." The last speaker of the meeting was Sheikh Ahmad Mobbaleghi, a scholar from Iran who said 'Takfir'( Accusing other Muslims of heresy) in the Islamic world has become a dangerous and destructive threat. Quoting Supreme Leader of the Islamic revolution, Mobbaleghi said, "A comprehensive decision should be taken concerning unity among Muslims and any measure which hurts the unity should be avoided." The 20th International Conference on Islamic Unity was inaugurated here Friday with a speech by Expediency Council Chairman Ayatollah Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani on the occasion of birthday anniversary of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) as well as Imam Sadeq (AS). The conference wrapped up its work yesterday.
                  Libyan researcher and scholar Sheikh Ahmed al-Qata'ni said the purpose of Islamic education and spiritual training is moral values. He added, " Shia and Sunni Muslims must follow the principles, because Islam is a perfect religion." The last speaker of the meeting was Sheikh Ahmad Mobbaleghi, a scholar from Iran who said 'Takfir'( Accusing other Muslims of heresy) in the Islamic world has become a dangerous and destructive threat. Quoting Supreme Leader of the Islamic revolution, Mobbaleghi said, "A comprehensive decision should be taken concerning unity among Muslims and any measure which hurts the unity should be avoided." The 20th International Conference on Islamic Unity was inaugurated here Friday with a speech by Expediency Council Chairman Ayatollah Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani on the occasion of birthday anniversary of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) as well as Imam Sadeq (AS). The conference wrapped up its work yesterday.
                  The last speaker of the meeting was Sheikh Ahmad Mobbaleghi, a scholar from Iran who said 'Takfir'( Accusing other Muslims of heresy) in the Islamic world has become a dangerous and destructive threat. Quoting Supreme Leader of the Islamic revolution, Mobbaleghi said, "A comprehensive decision should be taken concerning unity among Muslims and any measure which hurts the unity should be avoided." The 20th International Conference on Islamic Unity was inaugurated here Friday with a speech by Expediency Council Chairman Ayatollah Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani on the occasion of birthday anniversary of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) as well as Imam Sadeq (AS). The conference wrapped up its work yesterday.
                  The 20th International Conference on Islamic Unity was inaugurated here Friday with a speech by Expediency Council Chairman Ayatollah Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani on the occasion of birthday anniversary of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) as well as Imam Sadeq (AS). The conference wrapped up its work yesterday.
                  The conference wrapped up its work yesterday.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.