The agreement was reached when South Korean Defense Minister Lee Jun met with U.S. Undersecretary of Defense Douglas Feith, a senior official of the South Korean Defense Ministry said. Lee and Feith agreed that the two sides hold their annual security consultative meeting in Washington on December 5, bringing together Lee and his U.S. counterpart Donald Rumsfeld along with top military brass from both countries, AFP reported. "The two sides reaffirmed that the North's nuclear development program must not be condoned and that the issue must be resolved in a swift and verifiable manner," said Cha Young-koo, director general of the ministry's policy planning bureau. Feith indirectly urged South Korea to raise the issue with the North at inter-Korean talks, Cha said. Feith also met with South Korean Foreign Minister Choi Sung-Hong and visited the 'demilitarized zone' that has divided the Korean Peninsula for nearly half a century. The United States said North Korea had admitted during a visit to Pyongyang by U.S. special envoy James Kelly last month to running nuclear weapons program despite a 1994 deal freezing its nuclear ambitions. North Korea has since rejected the U.S. claims as "groundless". It said North Korea's first Deputy Foreign Minister, Kang Sok-ju, told Kelly that the North has the right to possess not only nuclear, but even more deadlier weapons in the face of U.S. nuclear threats. Pyongyang has offered to resolve U.S. concerns over nuclear weapons in return for a non-aggression pact. But the United States rejected the offer, demanding the North end its nuclear weapons development before talks could begin. Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                  Lee and Feith agreed that the two sides hold their annual security consultative meeting in Washington on December 5, bringing together Lee and his U.S. counterpart Donald Rumsfeld along with top military brass from both countries, AFP reported. "The two sides reaffirmed that the North's nuclear development program must not be condoned and that the issue must be resolved in a swift and verifiable manner," said Cha Young-koo, director general of the ministry's policy planning bureau. Feith indirectly urged South Korea to raise the issue with the North at inter-Korean talks, Cha said. Feith also met with South Korean Foreign Minister Choi Sung-Hong and visited the 'demilitarized zone' that has divided the Korean Peninsula for nearly half a century. The United States said North Korea had admitted during a visit to Pyongyang by U.S. special envoy James Kelly last month to running nuclear weapons program despite a 1994 deal freezing its nuclear ambitions. North Korea has since rejected the U.S. claims as "groundless". It said North Korea's first Deputy Foreign Minister, Kang Sok-ju, told Kelly that the North has the right to possess not only nuclear, but even more deadlier weapons in the face of U.S. nuclear threats. Pyongyang has offered to resolve U.S. concerns over nuclear weapons in return for a non-aggression pact. But the United States rejected the offer, demanding the North end its nuclear weapons development before talks could begin. Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                  "The two sides reaffirmed that the North's nuclear development program must not be condoned and that the issue must be resolved in a swift and verifiable manner," said Cha Young-koo, director general of the ministry's policy planning bureau. Feith indirectly urged South Korea to raise the issue with the North at inter-Korean talks, Cha said. Feith also met with South Korean Foreign Minister Choi Sung-Hong and visited the 'demilitarized zone' that has divided the Korean Peninsula for nearly half a century. The United States said North Korea had admitted during a visit to Pyongyang by U.S. special envoy James Kelly last month to running nuclear weapons program despite a 1994 deal freezing its nuclear ambitions. North Korea has since rejected the U.S. claims as "groundless". It said North Korea's first Deputy Foreign Minister, Kang Sok-ju, told Kelly that the North has the right to possess not only nuclear, but even more deadlier weapons in the face of U.S. nuclear threats. Pyongyang has offered to resolve U.S. concerns over nuclear weapons in return for a non-aggression pact. But the United States rejected the offer, demanding the North end its nuclear weapons development before talks could begin. Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                  Feith indirectly urged South Korea to raise the issue with the North at inter-Korean talks, Cha said. Feith also met with South Korean Foreign Minister Choi Sung-Hong and visited the 'demilitarized zone' that has divided the Korean Peninsula for nearly half a century. The United States said North Korea had admitted during a visit to Pyongyang by U.S. special envoy James Kelly last month to running nuclear weapons program despite a 1994 deal freezing its nuclear ambitions. North Korea has since rejected the U.S. claims as "groundless". It said North Korea's first Deputy Foreign Minister, Kang Sok-ju, told Kelly that the North has the right to possess not only nuclear, but even more deadlier weapons in the face of U.S. nuclear threats. Pyongyang has offered to resolve U.S. concerns over nuclear weapons in return for a non-aggression pact. But the United States rejected the offer, demanding the North end its nuclear weapons development before talks could begin. Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                  Feith also met with South Korean Foreign Minister Choi Sung-Hong and visited the 'demilitarized zone' that has divided the Korean Peninsula for nearly half a century. The United States said North Korea had admitted during a visit to Pyongyang by U.S. special envoy James Kelly last month to running nuclear weapons program despite a 1994 deal freezing its nuclear ambitions. North Korea has since rejected the U.S. claims as "groundless". It said North Korea's first Deputy Foreign Minister, Kang Sok-ju, told Kelly that the North has the right to possess not only nuclear, but even more deadlier weapons in the face of U.S. nuclear threats. Pyongyang has offered to resolve U.S. concerns over nuclear weapons in return for a non-aggression pact. But the United States rejected the offer, demanding the North end its nuclear weapons development before talks could begin. Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                  The United States said North Korea had admitted during a visit to Pyongyang by U.S. special envoy James Kelly last month to running nuclear weapons program despite a 1994 deal freezing its nuclear ambitions. North Korea has since rejected the U.S. claims as "groundless". It said North Korea's first Deputy Foreign Minister, Kang Sok-ju, told Kelly that the North has the right to possess not only nuclear, but even more deadlier weapons in the face of U.S. nuclear threats. Pyongyang has offered to resolve U.S. concerns over nuclear weapons in return for a non-aggression pact. But the United States rejected the offer, demanding the North end its nuclear weapons development before talks could begin. Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                  North Korea has since rejected the U.S. claims as "groundless". It said North Korea's first Deputy Foreign Minister, Kang Sok-ju, told Kelly that the North has the right to possess not only nuclear, but even more deadlier weapons in the face of U.S. nuclear threats. Pyongyang has offered to resolve U.S. concerns over nuclear weapons in return for a non-aggression pact. But the United States rejected the offer, demanding the North end its nuclear weapons development before talks could begin. Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                  Pyongyang has offered to resolve U.S. concerns over nuclear weapons in return for a non-aggression pact. But the United States rejected the offer, demanding the North end its nuclear weapons development before talks could begin. Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                  But the United States rejected the offer, demanding the North end its nuclear weapons development before talks could begin. Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                  Feith will leave for Tokyo Thursday for meetings with senior Japanese officials.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.