TEHRAN- Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Nasser Kanaani on Monday praised the growing China-Iran ties.  However, he decried a joint statement issued on Friday by the Persian Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and China, emphasizing that meddling in Iranian domestic issues is unacceptable. The relationship between Iran and China is blossoming because of the political will of the two nations' leaders, citing the Monday visit to Tehran by China’s Vice Premier Hu Chunhua as an example.  “We are welcoming a Chinese group today in an effort to strengthen ties between the two nations. We favor fostering relations, and this is an aim shared by the two nations,” he told reporters at a regular weekly news briefing.  The comprehensive long-term cooperation plan between Iran and China, he said, is a road map for effective collaboration between the two states and is put into effect.  On Friday, Chinese President Xi Jinping paid a visit to Saudi Arabia, where he met with GCC leaders. They issued a joint statement that consisted of a number of issues directly related to Iran, including its nuclear program, regional policies, and its ownership over the Persian Gulf islands of Abu Musa and Greater and Lesser Tunbs. Kanaani emphasized that the Islamic Republic would reject any claim made over its three islands and that no nation has the authority to make a statement regarding the matter since it concerns Iran's domestic affairs. Iran's Foreign Minister, Hossein Amir Abdollahian, stated on Saturday that the Islamic Republic does not compromise on its territorial integrity in response to the joint statement made by China and the GCC states and the claims over the Iranian triple islands. “Iran never abandons the negotiations” Kanaani also reiterated Tehran’s commitment to the international 2015 nuclear deal, officially known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). The spokesperson added Iran never abandons the negotiations to revive the JCPOA, noting his country regards dialogue as the sole means to lift anti-Iran sanctions. He also reaffirmed Tehran’s support for prioritizing ties with neighbors based on shared interests and respect for territorial integrity. “Imposition of fresh sanctions on UK, EU” The Foreign Ministry spokesman also said the EU and Britain have been hit with further sanctions as a result of their ongoing acts against Iran. In response to the European Union's attempt to impose new sanctions against Iran, the spokesman stated, “Due to the continued non-constructive behaviors of the European Union, the Islamic Republic of Iran has taken preventive measures based on its legitimate right.” “We announce and implement a list of fresh sanctions against some institutions and individuals connected to the European Union, as well as certain institutions and individuals connected to the United Kingdom,” he added.  He said that the Islamic Republic would not think twice about using its legal rights and would take appropriate steps in response to any unfavorable actions. “There will be repercussions for interfering in Iranian politics. Political pressure to make concessions won't sway Iran,” Kanaani remarked. “Iran respects the right to peaceful protests” Kananni also underlined that Tehran respects the legal right to peaceful protest. “The Islamic Republic of Iran acknowledges the right to peaceful protest and criticism, and all people may express their concerns to Iranian officials,” he added. “Western meddling in Iranian domestic issues unhelpful” He added, “As far as we are concerned, as a diplomatic agency, we have repeatedly announced that non-constructive interventions by countries in Iran's internal affairs are both illegal and unhelpful.” In response to allegations of some countries regarding riots in Iran, Kanaani noted, “These group of countries repeatedly commented on issues that Iran announced that they are investigating the dimensions of the issue. Expressing an opinion on an issue that is being investigated in terms of dimension and timeframe in the country in question is prejudice, and Iran considers neither prejudice nor intervention constructive.” “We believe the protest is legal and the Islamic Republic of Iran accepts protests but riots are unconstructive and foreign support for the riots will not help the voices of the protesters and critics to reach the officials in charge,” Kanaani stressed.  “Iran never supplies Ukraine or Russia any weaponry” The foreign ministry spokesperson also said Tehran does not support the conflict in Ukraine and perceives political dialogue as the best way to resolve the crisis.  Kanaani continued that frequent charges that Iran is involved in the Ukraine war are politically driven and made by nations who supply weapons to one side of the conflict. “U.S. is the biggest hub for female prisoners”   In response to United States' attempts to remove Iran as a member of the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW), Kanaani also said the United States is the world's largest jail keeper and building prisons. More than 11,200 female convicts, or one-third of all female prisoners worldwide, are in the United States.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.