TEHRAN _ The U.S. President's son in law, Jared Kushner, has become a controversial figure in the United States in recent days. This 36-year-old Jewish young man who has extensive relations with the AIPAC lobby in the United States, has been very intimate with the Prime of the Zionist regime, Benjamin Netanyahu. During the 2016 presidential campaigns, Kushner was considered one of Trump bridges with the AIPAC lobby and Netanyahu. After Trump's victory in the election, Kushner became a powerful figure in the U.S. foreign policy.  His power was even beyond that of the U.S. National Security Advisor and Secretary of State. He became the main mediator and, in some cases, the U.S. decision maker in the region. A process that continues up to this day. U.S. Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, is absolutely dissatisfied with Kushner's involvement in the policies regarding Western Asia. And this dissatisfaction is intensified day by day. One of the main reasons for Tillerson's resignation, as reported by the American media, is Kushner's covert action in the region (West Asia). He has secret lobbies with Zionist and Saudi leaders. Many of these visits and lobbies are without the knowledge of the U.S. State Department. In other words, Trump has given Kushner an exclusive right to interfere in the foreign policy of his country. Therefore, many of Kushner's movements take place in the form of direct and indirect powers that Trump has given to his son in law. Not long ago, Zionist sources, while introducing some of the Jewish members of Donald Trump cabinet, named Kushner as the most influential member of his administration. According to this Zionist newspaper, Kushner doesn't receive legal payment, but at the same time, he is Trump's advisor on policies regarding Middle East and Israel, as well as in the field of foreign trade.
As it comes from reports, Kushner has an enormous influence on American business and foreign policy. Trump gave a blank check to his son in law, and this has naturally led to many dissatisfaction in the US Department of State. It seems that as time passes, this dissatisfaction also increases. Another point is that Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, looks forward to Kushner's role in American regional policies. Kushner's Jewishness and his strong attachment to the Zionist lobby, and especially the Likud party, has led the Zionist prime minister to rely on Kushner even more than Tramp and, consequently, Tillerson. Many of the Washington-Tel Aviv interactions that took place during the last year were through Kushner. In August, Kushner met with Netanyahu for a compromise and a roadmap for Washington and Tel Aviv approach towards Palestine. The controversial and unacceptable issues, such as recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of the occupied territories, have been the result of this visit. Obviously, as time goes by, we will hear more of Trump's son in law and his great role in U.S. foreign policy. Some American analysts believe that Kushner is going to benefit from the support of Trump's proponents for power in future (as the next president of the United States). Of course it's still unclear what will Kushner's fate be in the future of American political arena. Undoubtedly, Kushner's political life will expire if Trump is for any reasons defeated in the upcoming presidential election of the US. That's why Netanyahu and the leaders of the Zionist regime and the AIPAC lobby are all trying to keep Kushner in power in the United States in any way possible. In recent days, some US media have announced the resignation of US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in the near future. Even the media mentioned Mike Pompeo, CIA director, as an alternative for Tillerson. However, President Donald Trump, while denying the news, has called this action a media gossip. On the other hand, the White House spokeswoman Sara Sanders said, "Tillerson is still at the head of the State Department, and the government is fully focused on the successful completion of the first year of Trump government." Nevertheless, many American analysts acknowledge that there are strong differences between the State Department and the White House. What is happening today within the US government is a full-fledged controversy that somehow shows itself in how the authorities are taking positions. The fact is that U.S. Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, is furiously angry with people like Trump, Nikki Haley, and Kushner because of their interference in the State Department's affairs. Kushner has a lot of advocacy and lobbying with some Arab countries supporting terrorism, and in the first place, Saudi Arabia. These consultations take place as Rex Tillerson, as the U.S. secretary of state is not aware of their contents accurately. In other words, many of Kushner's movements are made in the form of direct and indirect authorities that Trump has given to his son in law. A review of Bloomberg's recent report shows that Tillerson's is severely dissatisfied with the unilateral actions of Kushner. Bloomberg writes in this regard: "Tillerson believes Kushner hasn’t done enough to share details of the talks with the State Department, according to the people, leaving senior U.S. diplomats in the dark on the full extent of the highly sensitive negotiations.
“The problem is, the senior presidential adviser does not consult with the State Department -- and it’s unclear the level of consultation that goes on with the NSC,” one of the people familiar with Tillerson’s concerns said, referring to the National Security Council. “And that’s a problem for both the NSC and the State Department and it’s not something we can easily solve.”
Tillerson and other senior State Department officials are also concerned that Saudi leaders, having been held at arm’s length by President Barack Obama, see the connection with Kushner as a way to regain influence in the White House and U.S. backing for actions that could be controversial. Already, Prince Mohammed, heir to the Saudi throne, has put several such steps into motion." As reported by Bloomberg and others, Tillerson is virtually no secretary of State. He is left without the necessary power in the US diplomacy and foreign policy system. Consequently, despite Trump's denials of Tillerson's resignation, it remains possible for the U.S. Secretary of State to eventually resign. Undoubtedly in this case, we will witness a more serious confrontation between the Republicans and the President of the United States. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.