The poll by the ****Sunday Times**** says 61 percent of respondents opposed entry, whilst 28 percent were in favor. Fifty-three percent said they expected Britain to enter the euro in the next Parliament. The ruling Labour Party's policy is to join the euro early in the next Parliament provided five economic conditions have been set, and voters say "yes" in a referendum. The opposition Conservatives have ruled out entry for at least the five year term of the next Parliament. According to AFP, less than two weeks before the election, the poll also gives Labour a 19 percent lead over the Conservatives. It puts Labour on 49 percent, the Conservatives on 30 percent and the Liberal Democrats, Britain's third main party, on 14 percent. The ratings are unchanged from the paper's last poll carried out a week ago and would give Prime Minister Tony Blair a huge 237 seat majority in the House of Commons, Britain's Lower House. Labour currently holds a majority of 179. However only 54 percent of the 1,001 adults questioned said they were certain to vote, compared with 58 percent in last week's poll.
                  Fifty-three percent said they expected Britain to enter the euro in the next Parliament. The ruling Labour Party's policy is to join the euro early in the next Parliament provided five economic conditions have been set, and voters say "yes" in a referendum. The opposition Conservatives have ruled out entry for at least the five year term of the next Parliament. According to AFP, less than two weeks before the election, the poll also gives Labour a 19 percent lead over the Conservatives. It puts Labour on 49 percent, the Conservatives on 30 percent and the Liberal Democrats, Britain's third main party, on 14 percent. The ratings are unchanged from the paper's last poll carried out a week ago and would give Prime Minister Tony Blair a huge 237 seat majority in the House of Commons, Britain's Lower House. Labour currently holds a majority of 179. However only 54 percent of the 1,001 adults questioned said they were certain to vote, compared with 58 percent in last week's poll.
                  The ruling Labour Party's policy is to join the euro early in the next Parliament provided five economic conditions have been set, and voters say "yes" in a referendum. The opposition Conservatives have ruled out entry for at least the five year term of the next Parliament. According to AFP, less than two weeks before the election, the poll also gives Labour a 19 percent lead over the Conservatives. It puts Labour on 49 percent, the Conservatives on 30 percent and the Liberal Democrats, Britain's third main party, on 14 percent. The ratings are unchanged from the paper's last poll carried out a week ago and would give Prime Minister Tony Blair a huge 237 seat majority in the House of Commons, Britain's Lower House. Labour currently holds a majority of 179. However only 54 percent of the 1,001 adults questioned said they were certain to vote, compared with 58 percent in last week's poll.
                  According to AFP, less than two weeks before the election, the poll also gives Labour a 19 percent lead over the Conservatives. It puts Labour on 49 percent, the Conservatives on 30 percent and the Liberal Democrats, Britain's third main party, on 14 percent. The ratings are unchanged from the paper's last poll carried out a week ago and would give Prime Minister Tony Blair a huge 237 seat majority in the House of Commons, Britain's Lower House. Labour currently holds a majority of 179. However only 54 percent of the 1,001 adults questioned said they were certain to vote, compared with 58 percent in last week's poll.
                  It puts Labour on 49 percent, the Conservatives on 30 percent and the Liberal Democrats, Britain's third main party, on 14 percent. The ratings are unchanged from the paper's last poll carried out a week ago and would give Prime Minister Tony Blair a huge 237 seat majority in the House of Commons, Britain's Lower House. Labour currently holds a majority of 179. However only 54 percent of the 1,001 adults questioned said they were certain to vote, compared with 58 percent in last week's poll.
                  The ratings are unchanged from the paper's last poll carried out a week ago and would give Prime Minister Tony Blair a huge 237 seat majority in the House of Commons, Britain's Lower House. Labour currently holds a majority of 179. However only 54 percent of the 1,001 adults questioned said they were certain to vote, compared with 58 percent in last week's poll.
                  Labour currently holds a majority of 179. However only 54 percent of the 1,001 adults questioned said they were certain to vote, compared with 58 percent in last week's poll.
                  However only 54 percent of the 1,001 adults questioned said they were certain to vote, compared with 58 percent in last week's poll.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.