At the meeting, Kharrazi pointed to diverse capacities of the two countries for cooperation and called for utilizing them to bolster cooperation. He said that Iranian investment law would benefit foreign partners in light of the low-priced workforce and energy. On Iraq, Kharrazi said that the Iraqi crisis would be resolved only by respecting the votes of the Iraqi people and a quick transfer of power to the Iraqi people themselves. He said that multi-lateral approach should be taken in solving international issues adding that the latest resolution of the International Atomic Energy (IAEA) about Iranian nuclear program and Iranian agreement with the European states (October 21) indicated success of multi-lateral approach vis-à-vis unilateralism. Kharrazi called for Iran-Poland cooperation at international organizations. For his part, Zalewski said relations between Tehran and Warsaw are growing and that Poland attaches high importance to cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Iran on economic, regional and international issues. He said that there are extensive capacities for Iran-Poland economic cooperation and that the Polish officials are determined to develop cooperation with Iran. The upcoming visit to Tehran of Polish prime minister will help open a new chapter in bilateral cooperation, Zalewski said. He briefed Kharrazi on the presence of Polish forces in Iraq.
                  He said that Iranian investment law would benefit foreign partners in light of the low-priced workforce and energy. On Iraq, Kharrazi said that the Iraqi crisis would be resolved only by respecting the votes of the Iraqi people and a quick transfer of power to the Iraqi people themselves. He said that multi-lateral approach should be taken in solving international issues adding that the latest resolution of the International Atomic Energy (IAEA) about Iranian nuclear program and Iranian agreement with the European states (October 21) indicated success of multi-lateral approach vis-à-vis unilateralism. Kharrazi called for Iran-Poland cooperation at international organizations. For his part, Zalewski said relations between Tehran and Warsaw are growing and that Poland attaches high importance to cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Iran on economic, regional and international issues. He said that there are extensive capacities for Iran-Poland economic cooperation and that the Polish officials are determined to develop cooperation with Iran. The upcoming visit to Tehran of Polish prime minister will help open a new chapter in bilateral cooperation, Zalewski said. He briefed Kharrazi on the presence of Polish forces in Iraq.
                  On Iraq, Kharrazi said that the Iraqi crisis would be resolved only by respecting the votes of the Iraqi people and a quick transfer of power to the Iraqi people themselves. He said that multi-lateral approach should be taken in solving international issues adding that the latest resolution of the International Atomic Energy (IAEA) about Iranian nuclear program and Iranian agreement with the European states (October 21) indicated success of multi-lateral approach vis-à-vis unilateralism. Kharrazi called for Iran-Poland cooperation at international organizations. For his part, Zalewski said relations between Tehran and Warsaw are growing and that Poland attaches high importance to cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Iran on economic, regional and international issues. He said that there are extensive capacities for Iran-Poland economic cooperation and that the Polish officials are determined to develop cooperation with Iran. The upcoming visit to Tehran of Polish prime minister will help open a new chapter in bilateral cooperation, Zalewski said. He briefed Kharrazi on the presence of Polish forces in Iraq.
                  He said that multi-lateral approach should be taken in solving international issues adding that the latest resolution of the International Atomic Energy (IAEA) about Iranian nuclear program and Iranian agreement with the European states (October 21) indicated success of multi-lateral approach vis-à-vis unilateralism. Kharrazi called for Iran-Poland cooperation at international organizations. For his part, Zalewski said relations between Tehran and Warsaw are growing and that Poland attaches high importance to cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Iran on economic, regional and international issues. He said that there are extensive capacities for Iran-Poland economic cooperation and that the Polish officials are determined to develop cooperation with Iran. The upcoming visit to Tehran of Polish prime minister will help open a new chapter in bilateral cooperation, Zalewski said. He briefed Kharrazi on the presence of Polish forces in Iraq.
                  Kharrazi called for Iran-Poland cooperation at international organizations. For his part, Zalewski said relations between Tehran and Warsaw are growing and that Poland attaches high importance to cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Iran on economic, regional and international issues. He said that there are extensive capacities for Iran-Poland economic cooperation and that the Polish officials are determined to develop cooperation with Iran. The upcoming visit to Tehran of Polish prime minister will help open a new chapter in bilateral cooperation, Zalewski said. He briefed Kharrazi on the presence of Polish forces in Iraq.
                  For his part, Zalewski said relations between Tehran and Warsaw are growing and that Poland attaches high importance to cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Iran on economic, regional and international issues. He said that there are extensive capacities for Iran-Poland economic cooperation and that the Polish officials are determined to develop cooperation with Iran. The upcoming visit to Tehran of Polish prime minister will help open a new chapter in bilateral cooperation, Zalewski said. He briefed Kharrazi on the presence of Polish forces in Iraq.
                  He said that there are extensive capacities for Iran-Poland economic cooperation and that the Polish officials are determined to develop cooperation with Iran. The upcoming visit to Tehran of Polish prime minister will help open a new chapter in bilateral cooperation, Zalewski said. He briefed Kharrazi on the presence of Polish forces in Iraq.
                  The upcoming visit to Tehran of Polish prime minister will help open a new chapter in bilateral cooperation, Zalewski said. He briefed Kharrazi on the presence of Polish forces in Iraq.
                  He briefed Kharrazi on the presence of Polish forces in Iraq.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.