As we get closer to November, Donald Trump and his entourage are getting more afraid. The Congressional elections this year can be a prelude to the fall of Trump's power and his becoming a one term president in the United States.  The U.S. controversial President recently announced that he would be questioned by Democrats if they could win the majority of the Congress seats. However, Trump’s main worries are about the Senate. Trump is seriously concerned lest the democrats are going to win the absolute majority of the Senate (more than 60 seats). At the next level, Trump doesn’t have hopes for the Republicans to maintain their majority in the House of Representatives. Polls Results Aren’t to Trump’s Advantage   Polls conducted in the United States indicate that Trump and the Republicans’ popularity has fallen drastically compared with that of 2016 (during the time of U.S. general elections). At the end of 2017, the polls results suggested that about 31 percent of the Republicans (the Republican Party’s proponents) demanded the presence of someone other than Trump in power. Even Republican Senators such as Jeff Flake, the Republican Senator and one of Trump’s main opponents in the party, announced the possibility of another candidate’s presence in the 2020 presidential elections. The fact is, not only Democrats, but also Republican senators like John McCain, Rand Paul, Jeff Flake, and... are deeply opposed to Trump's policies, and they have publicly voiced their opposition. Many U.S. affairs analysts believe that in case of Republicans defeat in the Congressional elections, the gap will become even wider between the Republicans and Trump, and the Party members’ opposition to the President will be more explicitly voiced out. Under such circumstances, Republicans no longer regard it to their benefit to invest on Trump’s presence in power. Another point is that recent polls show the determination of American citizens to "cross Trump" and its policies. According to a new Survey Monkey tracking poll, only thirteen percent of Americans said they would consider the U.S. President Donald Trump to be honest and trustworthy. According to the results, only Thirty-five percent of Americans polled said they believed Trump has the ability to get things done, while 33 percent of those polled said he was tough enough for the job. These results, which are also repeated in similar polls, are considered a disaster for Trump and his administration. It shouldn’t be forgotten that during the 2016 Presidential elections, Trump could overcome his rival, Hillary Clinton, based on the Electoral College, and the unbalanced electoral structure in the United States. The fact is Hillary Clinton won more votes than Donald Trump in presidential elections. Trump is now faced with a variety of internal and external policy crises in the United States. Many of them are the direct result of the policies of the President of the United States. Many American citizens are worried about the deepening gap between the two sides of Atlantic (America and Europe). On the other hand, Trump has walked out of Iran nuclear deal, which, according to recent survey, about percent of American citizens supported. The events that have taken place in recent weeks have also decreased Trump's popularity: Trump’s involving an extramarital affair with the adult movie actress, and the reopening of the case on links between Trump and Russia during his presidential campaigns. All these issues led to the process of "crossing Trump" to be pursued even faster by American citizens. Although traditionally American citizens have lowers participation in Congressional elections compared to the presidential elections, it seems that this time there will be more participants on this political scene. Some U.S. analysts believe that Trump’s opponents are looking for an opportunity to make their anger at Donald Trump and the Republicans public. Hence, many of Trump's opponents will participate in the upcoming Congressional elections. They believe that, with the help of a Democratic Congress, they could partly restrain Trump's actions in years between 2018 to 2020. However, the main focus of Trump's opponents remains on the presidential elections in 2020. In recent months, whispers were heard that the former Vice President Joe Biden, the American Senator Bernie Sanders, and others are to stand before Trump in the future elections. However, it is not yet clear that Democrats will choose who to be their candidate in the 2020 electoral competitions. At any rate, Trump's opponents plan to send a hard warning to the White House by attending the Congressional elections and voting for the U.S. president’s political rivals. Nearly half of the American voters overall said that they hope Democrats take control of the Senate in 2018, according to the Quinnipiac University poll. Polls conducted previously also suggest that Democrats are standing on higher steps in the Congressional election compared with rivals. Of course, Trump and his companions are trying to change the equation by November this year, and thus, reduce the heavy weight of their potential failure in the election. Indeed, Trump is deeply worried about "Democrats winning the Senate with Absolute Majority". But even Democrats' partial victory in the Senate (51 seats out of 100) seems to have serious psychological impact on the Republican camp. As noted above, some senators, politicians and even Republican leaders will openly confront Trump and his policies at the White House; something that will put the U.S. President under heavy pressure.   All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.