“Experience has shown that a peace-seeking nation which is walking the path of dignity, happiness, and human ideals should have the power to defend itself against international aggressors and coercers,” Ayatollah Khamenei told army cadets at their graduation ceremony. Therefore, military strength, along with scientific, spiritual, cultural, and economic advancement, is one the prime goals of the Iranian nation, he added. “The brave Iranian nation, especially the courageous and faithful youth, has not allowed the enemies to make any practical threats over the past twenty-seven years. However, the armed forces should always be fully prepared to counter any type of threat,” the Leader said. Referring to the experiences of the Iranian armed forces, he told the graduating cadets, “You should use these invaluable experiences and take the honorable martyrs as your models.” Ayatollah Khamenei said that the future of the country is very promising, adding that all friends and enemies now acknowledge the glory of the Islamic Republic. “In such a situation, performing service and working in the armed forces is a sacred task,” he observed. The Leader inspected a military parade and then personally presented the graduates their diplomas. Several exemplary professors, disabled war veterans, and former prisoners of war were also honored at the graduation ceremony.
                  Therefore, military strength, along with scientific, spiritual, cultural, and economic advancement, is one the prime goals of the Iranian nation, he added. “The brave Iranian nation, especially the courageous and faithful youth, has not allowed the enemies to make any practical threats over the past twenty-seven years. However, the armed forces should always be fully prepared to counter any type of threat,” the Leader said. Referring to the experiences of the Iranian armed forces, he told the graduating cadets, “You should use these invaluable experiences and take the honorable martyrs as your models.” Ayatollah Khamenei said that the future of the country is very promising, adding that all friends and enemies now acknowledge the glory of the Islamic Republic. “In such a situation, performing service and working in the armed forces is a sacred task,” he observed. The Leader inspected a military parade and then personally presented the graduates their diplomas. Several exemplary professors, disabled war veterans, and former prisoners of war were also honored at the graduation ceremony.
                  “The brave Iranian nation, especially the courageous and faithful youth, has not allowed the enemies to make any practical threats over the past twenty-seven years. However, the armed forces should always be fully prepared to counter any type of threat,” the Leader said. Referring to the experiences of the Iranian armed forces, he told the graduating cadets, “You should use these invaluable experiences and take the honorable martyrs as your models.” Ayatollah Khamenei said that the future of the country is very promising, adding that all friends and enemies now acknowledge the glory of the Islamic Republic. “In such a situation, performing service and working in the armed forces is a sacred task,” he observed. The Leader inspected a military parade and then personally presented the graduates their diplomas. Several exemplary professors, disabled war veterans, and former prisoners of war were also honored at the graduation ceremony.
                  Referring to the experiences of the Iranian armed forces, he told the graduating cadets, “You should use these invaluable experiences and take the honorable martyrs as your models.” Ayatollah Khamenei said that the future of the country is very promising, adding that all friends and enemies now acknowledge the glory of the Islamic Republic. “In such a situation, performing service and working in the armed forces is a sacred task,” he observed. The Leader inspected a military parade and then personally presented the graduates their diplomas. Several exemplary professors, disabled war veterans, and former prisoners of war were also honored at the graduation ceremony.
                  Ayatollah Khamenei said that the future of the country is very promising, adding that all friends and enemies now acknowledge the glory of the Islamic Republic. “In such a situation, performing service and working in the armed forces is a sacred task,” he observed. The Leader inspected a military parade and then personally presented the graduates their diplomas. Several exemplary professors, disabled war veterans, and former prisoners of war were also honored at the graduation ceremony.
                  “In such a situation, performing service and working in the armed forces is a sacred task,” he observed. The Leader inspected a military parade and then personally presented the graduates their diplomas. Several exemplary professors, disabled war veterans, and former prisoners of war were also honored at the graduation ceremony.
                  The Leader inspected a military parade and then personally presented the graduates their diplomas. Several exemplary professors, disabled war veterans, and former prisoners of war were also honored at the graduation ceremony.
                  Several exemplary professors, disabled war veterans, and former prisoners of war were also honored at the graduation ceremony.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.