TEHRAN - Pakistan is one of the Muslim countries and neighbors of the Islamic Republic of Iran which shares a long history and huge cultural commonalities with Iran. Tehran Times correspondent has sit for an interview with Mr. Asif Durrani, Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in Tehran. We have discussed regional issues including recent conflicts on Pakistan-India border, Pakistan and Turkey relations, commercial and economic relations of Iran and Pakistan, and the implementation of the gas pipeline project between the two countries, reviewed the regional changes and also the relations between Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan. Ambassador Asif Durrani, who is from Quetta in Pakistan, speaks Pashtu, Urdu, Dari and also Farsi with a sweet accent. The ambassador of Pakistan joined his mission in Tehran 4 months ago. Earlier he was ambassador to UAE. With 30 years of experiences in the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan, Mr. Durrani had previously fulfilled a mission as the first secretary in a 4-year term 18 years ago at the Embassy of Pakistan. Earlier he served in Pakistan’s missions in Afghanistan, India, England and the United Nation. Asif Durrani is well familiar with the culture and civilization of Iran and wants to promote the relations of Iran and Pakistan in all fields. Pakistan has never used military power to settle the Kashmir dispute and seeks for a diplomatic solution.In recent days, we are witnessing conflicts on the border of Pakistan and India in Kashmir. What is the reason of such conflicts? After the independence of Pakistan, India unlawfully entered Kashmir and occupied a large part of this Muslim majority state. Then, the opposition of Kashmiris against the government of India began. The government of India took the Kashmir dispute to the UN Security Council. Since the partition plan envisaged that Muslim majority areas would accede to Pakistan and Hindu majority areas to India, it was but natural that Jammu and Kashmir would join Pakistan. But, India breached the partition agreement and contrived an agreement with the ruler of Jammu and Kashmir to annex the state to India. Based on this shady agreement, Kashmir was claimed as its territory by India. After the revolt in the Kashmir state, this issue was brought to the UN Security Council by India which accepted the decision of the Council to hold a plebiscite in the state. But, India initially dilly dallied and later refused to hold plebiscite in total disregard of the UN resolution. UN resolutions on Kashmir dispute were made from 1948 to 1967 and all stress settlement of the Kashmir dispute. Pakistan is one of the victims of terrorism in the region and around 70 thousand people have been the victims of terrorism in the last decade.Currently, two important issues are on the UN Security Council’s agenda, one is the issue of Palestine and the other is Kashmir, and both states are considered occupied. We see that people are not satisfied with the current condition in Kashmir which is why there are frequent uprisings in the state where Indian state repression continues unabated to suppress the voice of the Kashmiris to submission. Pakistan always has tried to settle the Kashmir dispute through peaceful and diplomatic means.  Pakistan has never used military power to settle the Kashmir dispute and seeks a diplomatic solution. Pakistan is one of the party to the dispute and if India is thinking to put Pakistan under pressure by using state terrorism in occupied Kashmir, it is utterly mistaken. After the death of Borhan Muzaffar Wani in Kashmir by Indian security forces, people of Kashmir reacted to the action of the Indian security forces. More than 200 thousands of Kashmiris participated in his funeral. Even in the funeral procession, Indian security forces killed and injured many people. For the first time, Indian security forces used pellet guns to blind the people for life. More than 150 Kashmiris have lost their eyesight due to pellet guns while over 700 are partially blinded. Such brutal tactics can have drastic and deadly outcomes. Since 8 July 2016, Indian security forces have resorted to suppress the civilians in Kashmir by force. The people of the occupied state have not stopped their protests; they call it the "Second Intifada". After an attack on the brigade headquarters of Indian army forces in Uri Kashmir, India called it a terrorist act and blamed Pakistan for it. However, it might be possible that India itself had orchestrated such an act in order to divert world’s attention on Indian atrocities against the innocent Kashmiris. India must know that it cannot put Pakistan under pressure by starting shootings on the border. Only solution to Kashmir dispute is peaceful negotiations. On the other hand, since India and Pakistan are nuclear countries in the region, they must take measures to contain the situation from further aggravation. The head of the Zionist regime has visited India in last few days and has stated in his meetings with Indian officials that the Zionist regime is planning to celebrate the anniversary of their 25-year relations and this has provoked some Muslim Indians to protest. Would you give some explanations in this regard? I cannot comment on this matter as India is an independent country and can have diplomatic relations with any country. In fact, the Indian government used to be a supporter of Palestinian cause, but in recent years it has changed its position towards the Palestine issue. The policy of India in the region reminds the English expression of “Running with the hare and hunting with the hounds”. On the other hand, India is one of the founders of the Non-Aligned Movement, but it seems it doesn’t play a significant role among the non-aligned member states. If there are 1 billion poor people in the world, half of them are living in India.  Indian intransigence would only increase the poverty of its people. Last week Turkish president had a visit to Pakistan and delivered a lecture in the Parliament of Pakistan. How will be the relations of Pakistan and Turkey in different fields? When in 1920s, the “Khilafat Movement” was started in the subcontinent, the Ottoman dynasty was under pressure from the world powers. Muslim women of the subcontinent sold their jewelries to support the Ottoman Caliphate against British aggression. Muslims of the subcontinent and Turkey have relations much before the independence of Pakistan. Iran was the first country to recognize Pakistan, and we always remember this gesture. Similarly the people of Turkey have never forgotten this historical support of the Muslims of the subcontinent for the Ottoman Khilafat. We are proud of our relations with Turkey. Both countries have always stood by each other on various issues. We are grateful to Turkey for always supporting the just cause of the Kashmiri people.  (End of Part one)      All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.