The most important element in relations is “trust” which widely exists between the officials of the two countries, Sultan Qaboos said in a meeting with Iranian Foreign Minister Manuchehr Mottaki. “We welcome and support any idea which would lead to strengthening relations between Tehran and Muscat,” he added. Mottaki, who visited Muscat on Tuesday to participate in the 11th session of Iran-Oman Joint Economic Commission, said, “There are perfect political relations between Iran and Oman, and we will try to improve the economic ties” in the same way. The Iranian top diplomat said due to decisions taken in the joint commission “next year we will witness a considerable jump in economic relations.” In the new perspective the priority is given to joint investments by traders from the two countries, he added. In the meeting with his Omani counterpart Yusuf bin Alavi, Mottaki called for a boost in the economic relations and also talked about developments in Iraq and Palestine. “With the persistence and seriousness of you and the Omani Minister of Commerce Maghbul bin Ali Sultan, within a few months we can surely do what we could not accomplish in the past years,” Alavi said. The Omani minister said the Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki is “fully aware of Iraq’s problems and we should help him.”
                  “We welcome and support any idea which would lead to strengthening relations between Tehran and Muscat,” he added. Mottaki, who visited Muscat on Tuesday to participate in the 11th session of Iran-Oman Joint Economic Commission, said, “There are perfect political relations between Iran and Oman, and we will try to improve the economic ties” in the same way. The Iranian top diplomat said due to decisions taken in the joint commission “next year we will witness a considerable jump in economic relations.” In the new perspective the priority is given to joint investments by traders from the two countries, he added. In the meeting with his Omani counterpart Yusuf bin Alavi, Mottaki called for a boost in the economic relations and also talked about developments in Iraq and Palestine. “With the persistence and seriousness of you and the Omani Minister of Commerce Maghbul bin Ali Sultan, within a few months we can surely do what we could not accomplish in the past years,” Alavi said. The Omani minister said the Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki is “fully aware of Iraq’s problems and we should help him.”
                  Mottaki, who visited Muscat on Tuesday to participate in the 11th session of Iran-Oman Joint Economic Commission, said, “There are perfect political relations between Iran and Oman, and we will try to improve the economic ties” in the same way. The Iranian top diplomat said due to decisions taken in the joint commission “next year we will witness a considerable jump in economic relations.” In the new perspective the priority is given to joint investments by traders from the two countries, he added. In the meeting with his Omani counterpart Yusuf bin Alavi, Mottaki called for a boost in the economic relations and also talked about developments in Iraq and Palestine. “With the persistence and seriousness of you and the Omani Minister of Commerce Maghbul bin Ali Sultan, within a few months we can surely do what we could not accomplish in the past years,” Alavi said. The Omani minister said the Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki is “fully aware of Iraq’s problems and we should help him.”
                  In the new perspective the priority is given to joint investments by traders from the two countries, he added. In the meeting with his Omani counterpart Yusuf bin Alavi, Mottaki called for a boost in the economic relations and also talked about developments in Iraq and Palestine. “With the persistence and seriousness of you and the Omani Minister of Commerce Maghbul bin Ali Sultan, within a few months we can surely do what we could not accomplish in the past years,” Alavi said. The Omani minister said the Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki is “fully aware of Iraq’s problems and we should help him.”
                  In the meeting with his Omani counterpart Yusuf bin Alavi, Mottaki called for a boost in the economic relations and also talked about developments in Iraq and Palestine. “With the persistence and seriousness of you and the Omani Minister of Commerce Maghbul bin Ali Sultan, within a few months we can surely do what we could not accomplish in the past years,” Alavi said. The Omani minister said the Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki is “fully aware of Iraq’s problems and we should help him.”
                  “With the persistence and seriousness of you and the Omani Minister of Commerce Maghbul bin Ali Sultan, within a few months we can surely do what we could not accomplish in the past years,” Alavi said. The Omani minister said the Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki is “fully aware of Iraq’s problems and we should help him.”
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.