According to the Asharq al-Awsat, Berri - also head of the Lebanese Amal Movement - said the investigations indicate an organized abduction of the top cleric along with two of his followers by the Libyan government. Imam Musa Sadr was the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council chief. Speaking on the threshold of the 28th disappearance anniversary of the cleric, Berri said that the Amal Movement, the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council and the whole Lebanon will continue search to unravel the suspicious mystery of Sadr’s disappearance. “On August 31, 1978, Lebanon lost trace of Sadr who was then in Libya for an official visit at the invitation of the Libyan leader. After a series of serious investigations, there remains no doubt to us and the Lebanese government that Imam Musa Sadr and his followers had been kidnapped in Libya,” he added. The Iranian-born leader of the Lebanese Shia Imam Musa Sadr was invited by Libyan leader to take part in the ceremonies held on the anniversary of the country’s revolution. He entered Libya on August 25, 1978 but he was kidnapped along with two others, Sheikh Mohammed Yaaqoub and Abbas Badreddine. Imam Musa Sadr was one of the architects of the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council of which Amal and the Hezbollah movements are the largest political factions.
                  Imam Musa Sadr was the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council chief. Speaking on the threshold of the 28th disappearance anniversary of the cleric, Berri said that the Amal Movement, the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council and the whole Lebanon will continue search to unravel the suspicious mystery of Sadr’s disappearance. “On August 31, 1978, Lebanon lost trace of Sadr who was then in Libya for an official visit at the invitation of the Libyan leader. After a series of serious investigations, there remains no doubt to us and the Lebanese government that Imam Musa Sadr and his followers had been kidnapped in Libya,” he added. The Iranian-born leader of the Lebanese Shia Imam Musa Sadr was invited by Libyan leader to take part in the ceremonies held on the anniversary of the country’s revolution. He entered Libya on August 25, 1978 but he was kidnapped along with two others, Sheikh Mohammed Yaaqoub and Abbas Badreddine. Imam Musa Sadr was one of the architects of the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council of which Amal and the Hezbollah movements are the largest political factions.
                  Speaking on the threshold of the 28th disappearance anniversary of the cleric, Berri said that the Amal Movement, the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council and the whole Lebanon will continue search to unravel the suspicious mystery of Sadr’s disappearance. “On August 31, 1978, Lebanon lost trace of Sadr who was then in Libya for an official visit at the invitation of the Libyan leader. After a series of serious investigations, there remains no doubt to us and the Lebanese government that Imam Musa Sadr and his followers had been kidnapped in Libya,” he added. The Iranian-born leader of the Lebanese Shia Imam Musa Sadr was invited by Libyan leader to take part in the ceremonies held on the anniversary of the country’s revolution. He entered Libya on August 25, 1978 but he was kidnapped along with two others, Sheikh Mohammed Yaaqoub and Abbas Badreddine. Imam Musa Sadr was one of the architects of the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council of which Amal and the Hezbollah movements are the largest political factions.
                  “On August 31, 1978, Lebanon lost trace of Sadr who was then in Libya for an official visit at the invitation of the Libyan leader. After a series of serious investigations, there remains no doubt to us and the Lebanese government that Imam Musa Sadr and his followers had been kidnapped in Libya,” he added. The Iranian-born leader of the Lebanese Shia Imam Musa Sadr was invited by Libyan leader to take part in the ceremonies held on the anniversary of the country’s revolution. He entered Libya on August 25, 1978 but he was kidnapped along with two others, Sheikh Mohammed Yaaqoub and Abbas Badreddine. Imam Musa Sadr was one of the architects of the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council of which Amal and the Hezbollah movements are the largest political factions.
                  The Iranian-born leader of the Lebanese Shia Imam Musa Sadr was invited by Libyan leader to take part in the ceremonies held on the anniversary of the country’s revolution. He entered Libya on August 25, 1978 but he was kidnapped along with two others, Sheikh Mohammed Yaaqoub and Abbas Badreddine. Imam Musa Sadr was one of the architects of the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council of which Amal and the Hezbollah movements are the largest political factions.
                  He entered Libya on August 25, 1978 but he was kidnapped along with two others, Sheikh Mohammed Yaaqoub and Abbas Badreddine. Imam Musa Sadr was one of the architects of the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council of which Amal and the Hezbollah movements are the largest political factions.
                  Imam Musa Sadr was one of the architects of the Lebanese Shia Supreme Council of which Amal and the Hezbollah movements are the largest political factions.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.