TEHRAN – The Iranian mission to the United Nations in New York has responded to German allegations about Iran selling drones to Russia for use in Ukraine. “Since the beginning of the crisis in Ukraine, the Islamic Republic of Iran has taken a clear, consistent, and unwavering position, emphasizing that all UN Member States must fully respect the purposes and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter as well as the international law,” the mission said in a statement. It added, “The Islamic Republic of Iran has consistently supported peace and end of the conflict in Ukraine and urged the parties to exercise restraint, avoid escalating tensions, and engage in a meaningful process for addressing the root causes of the situation and settling their disputes through peaceful means. It also urged the parties to uphold their obligations under international humanitarian law and conduct consultations to protect civilians and critical infrastructure from military targets or attacks. The Islamic Republic of Iran supports the United Nation’s ongoing efforts to find a peaceful solution to this conflict. The United Nations should maintain objectivity and impartiality in order to play a responsible and constructive role in the political settlement of Ukraine’s conflict.” The statement comes amid repetitive Western accusations of Iran selling combat drones to Russia amid a raging war in Ukraine. Several European countries, along with the United States, have claimed that the alleged Iranian drone sales violated United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231, which enshrined the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, officially known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). The Iranian mission to the UN said these allegations are categorically false. “The Islamic Republic of Iran categorically rejects and strongly condemns unfounded and unsubstantiated claims by delegations like Germany about selling unmanned aerial vehicles for use in the Ukraine conflict. Such unfounded claims, are nothing more than a propaganda apparatus launched by certain states to further their political agenda. In this regard, the Islamic Republic of Iran, in good faith and in accordance with its constructive approach toward the Ukraine crisis, stands ready to engage constructively in joint technical and expert cooperation to clarify the unfounded accusations leveled against Iran.” It added, “The Islamic Republic of Iran will continue its constructive engagement to help the peaceful resolution of this crisis.” The mission noted, “Iran underlines that its missile program is a homegrown and defensive capability under our international commitments. It should also be underlined that Iran continues to respect its commitments under the JCPOA and Comprehensive Safeguard Agreement. And the additional protocol is a voluntary instrument.”  ‘Enough is enough’ In a separate statement, the Iranian mission also said that nuclear-weapon states (NWSs) have undermined the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). In this statement, put out by Heidar Ali Balouji, the first counselor of the Iranian mission, Iran rejected all kinds of weapons of mass destruction.  “Nuclear disarmament has been on the international agenda since 24 January 1946, when the General Assembly adopted its first resolution calling for the elimination of nuclear weapons and all other weapons ‘adaptable to mass destruction.’ Also, when the NPT entered into force in 1970, the nuclear-weapon States – undertook a legal obligation ‘to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and nuclear disarmament.’ However, 72 years after the historic resolution, NWSs continue to maintain nuclear arsenals exceeding 13,000 weapons, with the number and quality of these devastative weapons set to increase in the coming years. The US and the UK, in particular, are in front of this haste. While all NWSs are actively modernizing their nuclear arsenals and delivery systems, none are engaged in disarmament negotiations. All have long-term plans for retaining these forces, and all are explicitly or implicitly justified by the doctrine of ‘nuclear deterrence’. Global concerns over this status quo far exceed the mere numbers involved. What’s more, are the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of the use of such weapons and then additional concerns over the substantial economic cost of those arsenals,” Balouji said.  He added, “I should also add that the concept of ‘Creating the Environment for Nuclear Disarmament’ introduced by the US as well as the approaches initiated by some nuclear umbrella states over the years and under different names, have not brought about any meaningful effect towards nuclear disarmament. Furthermore, the United States' withdrawal from the INF in 2019 spelled an end to the commitment to eliminate an entire class of nuclear missiles. Together with the lack of political will, the growing nuclear disarmament deficit by non-compliance of the NWSs has been reflected in the failure of the two consecutive NPT review conferences. As such, the NPT faces serious challenges that will affect its credibility and viability in the long term. Enough is enough.” He noted, “The NWSs and the so-called umbrella states must be held responsible through upholding their obligations by developing a timebound updated disarmament action plan with specific benchmarks as well as furtherance of the existing bilateral agreements. It is worth mentioning that the NWSs declaration in January 2022 should be reflected in their military doctrines and deterrence policies, with the first and foremost change being a pledge of nuclear security assurances. It is important to highlight that the NWSs have primary responsibility for the CTBT and they should mainly be addressed in this regard.” Balouji stated, “It should be underlined that the regional aspect of the cause has been facing a serious impediment in the Middle East. With the support of the US, the Israeli regime not only defies the international calls to accede to the NPT as a non-nuclear weapon party without any precondition and further delay despite its clandestine nuclear arsenal, it also refuses to join regional countries in the elaboration of a treaty establishing Middle East zone free of WMDs. The WMDs in the possession of this aggressor, occupier, apartheid regime and violator of international law is increasingly harrowing, as this regime consistently threatens other countries with nuclear annihilation. We join others and reiterate our call for this regime to abide by these international calls and renounce their possession of nuclear weapons, accede to the NPT and put all its nuclear activities under the IAEA’s full scope safeguard.” He continued, “On another note, the US’ withdrawal from the JCPOA in 2018, as well as the unwillingness to return to it, have caused immense damage to international efforts toward nuclear non-proliferation. We remind those delegations like France and Germany that Iran respects its international commitments on JCPOA and other issues. These delegations should rather address and request the US and the European participants of the JCPOA to uphold their end of the bargain. In reality, while we continue to reject all WMDs, including nuclear weapons, it serves no purpose to reiterate that Iran should not develop nuclear weapons. It is our view that the use of nuclear weapons is a violation of international law and is a crime against humanity. We strongly support the NAM proposal to commence negotiations on a comprehensive nuclear weapons convention on the total elimination of nuclear weapons in the Conference on Disarmament.”    All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.