TEHRAN – With more than 70 water habitats, including seasonal and permanent wetlands, lakes, dams, and rivers, West Azarbaijan has become one of the safe passages for migratory birds in the west of the country. West Azarbaijan is one of the top three destinations for migratory birds in the country, much like Mazandaran and Golestan in the north and Khuzestan in the south. With 45 seasonal and permanent wetlands and 14 important dams, West Azarbaijan has become one of the safe provinces for native and migratory birds, including, greylag goose, greater white-fronted goose, lesser white-fronted goose, red-breasted goose, ducks, swans, pelicans. With 45 wetlands and 14 dams, West Azarbaijan is a haven for birds, including geese, ducks, swans, and pelicans.Every year, 300,000 migratory birds spend winter in this province at the beginning of the autumn season, Saeed Shahand, head of the provincial department of environment, told IRNA on Sunday. Considering the current conditions of Lake Urmia and the importance of autumn rains for the birds’ wintering, necessary efforts have been made to dredge the wetlands of Lake Urmia in the south as well as the wetlands in the north of the province to facilitate water flow, he explained. He went on to say that the first group of migratory birds to the province include hunting birds such as eagles, falcons, saker falcons, lesser kestrel, and vultures, then the cranes join them, and the last group of birds is ducks and swans. So far, 300 species of aquatic birds have been identified in this province. During the migration seasons, more than 200 different species of migratory birds enter West Azarbaijan every year. One of the important characteristics of the province’s wetlands is the hatching of endangered species such as the white-headed duck, and the marbled duck, Omid Yousefi, head of the wildlife monitoring department of West Azarbaijan said. Two very important species such as the common crane and the greylag goose breed only in West Azarbaijan, and this has made the province's wetlands especially important in terms of biodiversity compared to other neighboring provinces, he highlighted. A number of wetlands in the province, including Brazan and Qoupi Baba Ali, Habadov, Soldoz, Sangi Naghdeh, and Norozloi Miandoab, are part of the Ramsar and international conventions, he stated. The preliminary works for the registration of two wetlands, Shiblu-Poldasht and Boralan in Mako, have been done at the Ramsar Convention site due to the favorable water condition and good habitat of birds, he said. Registration of wetlands in the Ramsar site can increase the sensitivity of local communities and authorities to protect these wetlands, and international support is provided for their protection, he emphasized. Kani Barazan wetland, an important habitat Located in the northwestern province of West Azarbaijan, Kani Barazan was once recorded as the first bird-sighting site in the country and birdwatchers call it Iran’s bird paradise. Stretching to 907 hectares, Kani Barazan wetland is home to various bird species including, flamingo, little cormorant, great white pelican, stilt, sternidae, great crested grebe, graylag goose, lesser white-fronted goose, heron, common shelduck and etc. Its high capabilities, diverse vegetation, and the annual migration of 200,000 species of birds have made this wetland a precious bird-watching site for nature lovers. So far, 75 species of water birds belonging to 11 families have been identified in this wetland, which will reach more than 180 species counting terrestrial species. Drought and lack of water rights caused the loss of 70 percent of the wetland, causing negative environmental effects with the beginning of the bird migration season. The water of this wetland is supplied from the Mahabad river, the spring of “Qarahdagh” village, the speed of water entry is in a good condition due to dredging. One million cubic meters of water will be released from Mahabad Dam to restore the Kani Barazan International Wetland, said Farouq Sokhanvar, the director of Mahabad city’s department of environment. Currently, the water of the Mahabad dam is released with a flow rate of one cubic meter per second to help restore the Kani Barazan International Wetland, he stated. Unique birdwatching sites in Iran Iran is decorated with impressive wetlands that hold a great share of aquatic and bird species and wildlife. Anzali wetland, Qeshm Island, Urmia Lake, and Miankaleh Peninsula are among the most important locations for bird watching in Iran. Miankaleh International Wetland in Mazandaran, called the birdwatching paradise of Iran, stretches to a total area of 68,000 hectares, which is home to at least 130 species of migratory species with a population of 1.5 million. Being an impressive bird-watching destination, the wetland displays a variety of bird species such as otters, all kinds of fish-eating ducks (common goldeneye and Mergus), pelicans, flamingos, cormorants, common pheasants, partridges, mute swan, tundra swan, and coots. Ashuradeh was introduced and registered as one of the world's first biosphere zones in 1975. Gomishan wetland in Golestan province is home to over 20,000 water birds, and more than 20 species of birds, which supports three IUCN Red List vulnerable species of waterbirds, i.e., Pelecanus Crispus, Aythya nyroca, and Vanellus gregarious, as well as the vulnerable mammal Phoca (Pusa) caspica; it is also an important staging area for the fish subspecies Rutilus rutilus caspicas. Located at the foot of the Zagros mountains in north-western Iran, Zarivar is a freshwater wetland hosting over 74 bird species, which is designated as a Ramsar Site. The site provides a suitable breeding and resting place for birds and other wetland animals, and due to the relatively extensive reed beds, it is an important overwintering site for northern migratory birds. FB/MG All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.