METTS is a two day event which will provide a forum for senior international and regional executives to discuss the opportunities and challenges in developing the tourism sector. This will allow executive branches to identify the major opportunities in the region, implement successful development strategies, and meet international and regional partners. It is expected that 400 groups active in tourism industry of the Middle East will participate in this 2-day summit and 60 international and regional personalities will give lectures on tourism and the development of this industry in the Middle Eastern countries. The speakers include Dr. Taleb Rifai, deputy secretary general of the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) and Monir Nasssar, Minister of Tourism and Antiques of Jordan, while Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, director of Iran’s Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization (ICHTO) will also attend this summit. The Middle East Travel and Tourism Summit 2006 will focus on sustainable development through tourism by building strong partnerships between local, regional and international private and public sectors. “During the WTM tourism exhibition held last November in London, Jordan authorities invited director of Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization of Iran to take part in Jordan’s 2006 summit. ICHTO is planning to dispatch a team to Jordan to attend the summit,” said Monir Kholghi, expert of the Middle East and Africa in ICHTO. According to the zonal divisions of UNWTO, Iran is considered as an Asian country and not a Middle Eastern country. However, Monir Kholghi explained that since Iran is considered as a Middle Eastern country in political divisions, therefore, the country has been invited to have and active participation in this summit. The expense for participation in this summit will be 550 British Pounds for Middle Eastern countries and 650 Pounds for other countries, 400 pounds for women activists in tourism industry, and 200 to 250 pounds for Jordanian companies. Twelve information panels will provide a forum for exploring the region’s potential in a number of key areas in travel and tourism, including infrastructure development, public/private partnership, security, foreign direct investment, and preservation of cultural heritage.
                  It is expected that 400 groups active in tourism industry of the Middle East will participate in this 2-day summit and 60 international and regional personalities will give lectures on tourism and the development of this industry in the Middle Eastern countries. The speakers include Dr. Taleb Rifai, deputy secretary general of the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) and Monir Nasssar, Minister of Tourism and Antiques of Jordan, while Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, director of Iran’s Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization (ICHTO) will also attend this summit. The Middle East Travel and Tourism Summit 2006 will focus on sustainable development through tourism by building strong partnerships between local, regional and international private and public sectors. “During the WTM tourism exhibition held last November in London, Jordan authorities invited director of Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization of Iran to take part in Jordan’s 2006 summit. ICHTO is planning to dispatch a team to Jordan to attend the summit,” said Monir Kholghi, expert of the Middle East and Africa in ICHTO. According to the zonal divisions of UNWTO, Iran is considered as an Asian country and not a Middle Eastern country. However, Monir Kholghi explained that since Iran is considered as a Middle Eastern country in political divisions, therefore, the country has been invited to have and active participation in this summit. The expense for participation in this summit will be 550 British Pounds for Middle Eastern countries and 650 Pounds for other countries, 400 pounds for women activists in tourism industry, and 200 to 250 pounds for Jordanian companies. Twelve information panels will provide a forum for exploring the region’s potential in a number of key areas in travel and tourism, including infrastructure development, public/private partnership, security, foreign direct investment, and preservation of cultural heritage.
                  The Middle East Travel and Tourism Summit 2006 will focus on sustainable development through tourism by building strong partnerships between local, regional and international private and public sectors. “During the WTM tourism exhibition held last November in London, Jordan authorities invited director of Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization of Iran to take part in Jordan’s 2006 summit. ICHTO is planning to dispatch a team to Jordan to attend the summit,” said Monir Kholghi, expert of the Middle East and Africa in ICHTO. According to the zonal divisions of UNWTO, Iran is considered as an Asian country and not a Middle Eastern country. However, Monir Kholghi explained that since Iran is considered as a Middle Eastern country in political divisions, therefore, the country has been invited to have and active participation in this summit. The expense for participation in this summit will be 550 British Pounds for Middle Eastern countries and 650 Pounds for other countries, 400 pounds for women activists in tourism industry, and 200 to 250 pounds for Jordanian companies. Twelve information panels will provide a forum for exploring the region’s potential in a number of key areas in travel and tourism, including infrastructure development, public/private partnership, security, foreign direct investment, and preservation of cultural heritage.
                  “During the WTM tourism exhibition held last November in London, Jordan authorities invited director of Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization of Iran to take part in Jordan’s 2006 summit. ICHTO is planning to dispatch a team to Jordan to attend the summit,” said Monir Kholghi, expert of the Middle East and Africa in ICHTO. According to the zonal divisions of UNWTO, Iran is considered as an Asian country and not a Middle Eastern country. However, Monir Kholghi explained that since Iran is considered as a Middle Eastern country in political divisions, therefore, the country has been invited to have and active participation in this summit. The expense for participation in this summit will be 550 British Pounds for Middle Eastern countries and 650 Pounds for other countries, 400 pounds for women activists in tourism industry, and 200 to 250 pounds for Jordanian companies. Twelve information panels will provide a forum for exploring the region’s potential in a number of key areas in travel and tourism, including infrastructure development, public/private partnership, security, foreign direct investment, and preservation of cultural heritage.
                  According to the zonal divisions of UNWTO, Iran is considered as an Asian country and not a Middle Eastern country. However, Monir Kholghi explained that since Iran is considered as a Middle Eastern country in political divisions, therefore, the country has been invited to have and active participation in this summit. The expense for participation in this summit will be 550 British Pounds for Middle Eastern countries and 650 Pounds for other countries, 400 pounds for women activists in tourism industry, and 200 to 250 pounds for Jordanian companies. Twelve information panels will provide a forum for exploring the region’s potential in a number of key areas in travel and tourism, including infrastructure development, public/private partnership, security, foreign direct investment, and preservation of cultural heritage.
                  The expense for participation in this summit will be 550 British Pounds for Middle Eastern countries and 650 Pounds for other countries, 400 pounds for women activists in tourism industry, and 200 to 250 pounds for Jordanian companies. Twelve information panels will provide a forum for exploring the region’s potential in a number of key areas in travel and tourism, including infrastructure development, public/private partnership, security, foreign direct investment, and preservation of cultural heritage.
                  Twelve information panels will provide a forum for exploring the region’s potential in a number of key areas in travel and tourism, including infrastructure development, public/private partnership, security, foreign direct investment, and preservation of cultural heritage.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.