The secretary of the province's natural disasters headquarters, Abolqasem Safavi, told IRNA that the agricultural areas in Kordkooy and Bandar Gaz, west of Golestan Province, suffered the most damage. Some 6,000 hectares of agricultural lands, houses and various infrastructure in 16 villages across the province were inundated by floods resulting from heavy rainfalls. According to the official, relief workers have reached the disaster areas to help drain and restore damaged facilities. He said so far no reports of human casualties have been received. In a related development, the managing director of the roads and transportation office in this northern province estimated the damage caused by friday's floods to rural and regional roads at 20 billion rials. Ali Lotfi further said provincial officials were strill trying to clean up the inundated and damaged areas. He blamed the recent disaster to the failure to dredge canals and waterways under bridges. Meanwhile, similar torrential rains and floods last week washed away parts of northern Ardebil Province, inflicting heavy material losses. The head of the province's natural disasters headquarters, Ahmad Kananpour, said that the floods destroyed water installations, agricultural canals, plantations, rural roads and main streets in Tazehkand Angout, in the suburb of the town of Garmi. He told IRNA that provincial natural disaster relief workers have been dispatched to the area since early morning to help flood-stricken residents relocate and drain their residences, trade centers and streets of flood water. 
                  Some 6,000 hectares of agricultural lands, houses and various infrastructure in 16 villages across the province were inundated by floods resulting from heavy rainfalls. According to the official, relief workers have reached the disaster areas to help drain and restore damaged facilities. He said so far no reports of human casualties have been received. In a related development, the managing director of the roads and transportation office in this northern province estimated the damage caused by friday's floods to rural and regional roads at 20 billion rials. Ali Lotfi further said provincial officials were strill trying to clean up the inundated and damaged areas. He blamed the recent disaster to the failure to dredge canals and waterways under bridges. Meanwhile, similar torrential rains and floods last week washed away parts of northern Ardebil Province, inflicting heavy material losses. The head of the province's natural disasters headquarters, Ahmad Kananpour, said that the floods destroyed water installations, agricultural canals, plantations, rural roads and main streets in Tazehkand Angout, in the suburb of the town of Garmi. He told IRNA that provincial natural disaster relief workers have been dispatched to the area since early morning to help flood-stricken residents relocate and drain their residences, trade centers and streets of flood water. 
                  According to the official, relief workers have reached the disaster areas to help drain and restore damaged facilities. He said so far no reports of human casualties have been received. In a related development, the managing director of the roads and transportation office in this northern province estimated the damage caused by friday's floods to rural and regional roads at 20 billion rials. Ali Lotfi further said provincial officials were strill trying to clean up the inundated and damaged areas. He blamed the recent disaster to the failure to dredge canals and waterways under bridges. Meanwhile, similar torrential rains and floods last week washed away parts of northern Ardebil Province, inflicting heavy material losses. The head of the province's natural disasters headquarters, Ahmad Kananpour, said that the floods destroyed water installations, agricultural canals, plantations, rural roads and main streets in Tazehkand Angout, in the suburb of the town of Garmi. He told IRNA that provincial natural disaster relief workers have been dispatched to the area since early morning to help flood-stricken residents relocate and drain their residences, trade centers and streets of flood water. 
                  He said so far no reports of human casualties have been received. In a related development, the managing director of the roads and transportation office in this northern province estimated the damage caused by friday's floods to rural and regional roads at 20 billion rials. Ali Lotfi further said provincial officials were strill trying to clean up the inundated and damaged areas. He blamed the recent disaster to the failure to dredge canals and waterways under bridges. Meanwhile, similar torrential rains and floods last week washed away parts of northern Ardebil Province, inflicting heavy material losses. The head of the province's natural disasters headquarters, Ahmad Kananpour, said that the floods destroyed water installations, agricultural canals, plantations, rural roads and main streets in Tazehkand Angout, in the suburb of the town of Garmi. He told IRNA that provincial natural disaster relief workers have been dispatched to the area since early morning to help flood-stricken residents relocate and drain their residences, trade centers and streets of flood water. 
                  Ali Lotfi further said provincial officials were strill trying to clean up the inundated and damaged areas. He blamed the recent disaster to the failure to dredge canals and waterways under bridges. Meanwhile, similar torrential rains and floods last week washed away parts of northern Ardebil Province, inflicting heavy material losses. The head of the province's natural disasters headquarters, Ahmad Kananpour, said that the floods destroyed water installations, agricultural canals, plantations, rural roads and main streets in Tazehkand Angout, in the suburb of the town of Garmi. He told IRNA that provincial natural disaster relief workers have been dispatched to the area since early morning to help flood-stricken residents relocate and drain their residences, trade centers and streets of flood water. 
                  He blamed the recent disaster to the failure to dredge canals and waterways under bridges. Meanwhile, similar torrential rains and floods last week washed away parts of northern Ardebil Province, inflicting heavy material losses. The head of the province's natural disasters headquarters, Ahmad Kananpour, said that the floods destroyed water installations, agricultural canals, plantations, rural roads and main streets in Tazehkand Angout, in the suburb of the town of Garmi. He told IRNA that provincial natural disaster relief workers have been dispatched to the area since early morning to help flood-stricken residents relocate and drain their residences, trade centers and streets of flood water. 
                  Meanwhile, similar torrential rains and floods last week washed away parts of northern Ardebil Province, inflicting heavy material losses. The head of the province's natural disasters headquarters, Ahmad Kananpour, said that the floods destroyed water installations, agricultural canals, plantations, rural roads and main streets in Tazehkand Angout, in the suburb of the town of Garmi. He told IRNA that provincial natural disaster relief workers have been dispatched to the area since early morning to help flood-stricken residents relocate and drain their residences, trade centers and streets of flood water. 
                  The head of the province's natural disasters headquarters, Ahmad Kananpour, said that the floods destroyed water installations, agricultural canals, plantations, rural roads and main streets in Tazehkand Angout, in the suburb of the town of Garmi. He told IRNA that provincial natural disaster relief workers have been dispatched to the area since early morning to help flood-stricken residents relocate and drain their residences, trade centers and streets of flood water. 
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.