He said that Iran has always insisted that to continue negotiations is the “rational solution” that would deter “further complication” of the issue. “Suspension (of uranium enrichment) is basically unacceptable, and (European Union foreign policy chief Javier) Solana, others, and the 5+1 member states (countries with permanent seat at the Security Council plus Germany) are completely aware of this,” he told a weekly press briefing. All proposals that require suspension as a precondition or as the outcome of the negotiations or during the negotiations would be rejected, he said. However he noted that Tehran is prepared to study all proposals that would not refute any of Iran’s rights. ---------Larijani, Solana to talk after consultations According to IRNA, Hosseini said Iran's Supreme National Security Council Secretary Ali Larijani and the EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana would hold negotiations after the conclusion of consultations. "The exact date of Larijani-Solana negotiations has not been fixed yet," he said in answer to a question about the postponement of talks between Larijani and Solana. "It has been said that the two sides would hold talks within two weeks. Negotiations will be held after consultations reach an outcome," Hosseini added.
                  “Suspension (of uranium enrichment) is basically unacceptable, and (European Union foreign policy chief Javier) Solana, others, and the 5+1 member states (countries with permanent seat at the Security Council plus Germany) are completely aware of this,” he told a weekly press briefing. All proposals that require suspension as a precondition or as the outcome of the negotiations or during the negotiations would be rejected, he said. However he noted that Tehran is prepared to study all proposals that would not refute any of Iran’s rights. ---------Larijani, Solana to talk after consultations According to IRNA, Hosseini said Iran's Supreme National Security Council Secretary Ali Larijani and the EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana would hold negotiations after the conclusion of consultations. "The exact date of Larijani-Solana negotiations has not been fixed yet," he said in answer to a question about the postponement of talks between Larijani and Solana. "It has been said that the two sides would hold talks within two weeks. Negotiations will be held after consultations reach an outcome," Hosseini added.
                  All proposals that require suspension as a precondition or as the outcome of the negotiations or during the negotiations would be rejected, he said. However he noted that Tehran is prepared to study all proposals that would not refute any of Iran’s rights. ---------Larijani, Solana to talk after consultations According to IRNA, Hosseini said Iran's Supreme National Security Council Secretary Ali Larijani and the EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana would hold negotiations after the conclusion of consultations. "The exact date of Larijani-Solana negotiations has not been fixed yet," he said in answer to a question about the postponement of talks between Larijani and Solana. "It has been said that the two sides would hold talks within two weeks. Negotiations will be held after consultations reach an outcome," Hosseini added.
                  However he noted that Tehran is prepared to study all proposals that would not refute any of Iran’s rights. ---------Larijani, Solana to talk after consultations According to IRNA, Hosseini said Iran's Supreme National Security Council Secretary Ali Larijani and the EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana would hold negotiations after the conclusion of consultations. "The exact date of Larijani-Solana negotiations has not been fixed yet," he said in answer to a question about the postponement of talks between Larijani and Solana. "It has been said that the two sides would hold talks within two weeks. Negotiations will be held after consultations reach an outcome," Hosseini added.
                  According to IRNA, Hosseini said Iran's Supreme National Security Council Secretary Ali Larijani and the EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana would hold negotiations after the conclusion of consultations. "The exact date of Larijani-Solana negotiations has not been fixed yet," he said in answer to a question about the postponement of talks between Larijani and Solana. "It has been said that the two sides would hold talks within two weeks. Negotiations will be held after consultations reach an outcome," Hosseini added.
                  "The exact date of Larijani-Solana negotiations has not been fixed yet," he said in answer to a question about the postponement of talks between Larijani and Solana. "It has been said that the two sides would hold talks within two weeks. Negotiations will be held after consultations reach an outcome," Hosseini added.
                  "It has been said that the two sides would hold talks within two weeks. Negotiations will be held after consultations reach an outcome," Hosseini added.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.