He added that the executive branch should also take part in the process of boosting economic and trade relations between Iran and other countries. Nadimi, who is a member of the Majlis Economic Commission, also mentioned that all Iranian officials advocate expansion of economic ties with other countries. He underlined that a better balance of trade with other states can help to attract foreign investments and lead to increased exports. The Lahijan deputy pointed out that the unipolar system and the bullying threats of the United States are pushing other countries towards Asian and South American markets and could be beneficial for the expansion of ties. Pointing to the country's high unemployment, he added that the Foreign Ministry should try to solve this problem by sending unemployed skilled workers to foreign countries. Nadimi said that the public is demanding overall development and officials should work hard to develop and expand ties with foreign countries. He had earlier questioned Foreign Ministry officials about the ministry's weak approach in enhancing economic ties with other countries and their failure to facilitate investment by Iranian expatriates. In response, Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said that the ministry and all its officials would try to pave the way for economic activities of Iranian expatriates. The response, however, has not convinced Nadimi and he plans to bring the issue up during an open session of the Majlis.
                  Nadimi, who is a member of the Majlis Economic Commission, also mentioned that all Iranian officials advocate expansion of economic ties with other countries. He underlined that a better balance of trade with other states can help to attract foreign investments and lead to increased exports. The Lahijan deputy pointed out that the unipolar system and the bullying threats of the United States are pushing other countries towards Asian and South American markets and could be beneficial for the expansion of ties. Pointing to the country's high unemployment, he added that the Foreign Ministry should try to solve this problem by sending unemployed skilled workers to foreign countries. Nadimi said that the public is demanding overall development and officials should work hard to develop and expand ties with foreign countries. He had earlier questioned Foreign Ministry officials about the ministry's weak approach in enhancing economic ties with other countries and their failure to facilitate investment by Iranian expatriates. In response, Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said that the ministry and all its officials would try to pave the way for economic activities of Iranian expatriates. The response, however, has not convinced Nadimi and he plans to bring the issue up during an open session of the Majlis.
                  He underlined that a better balance of trade with other states can help to attract foreign investments and lead to increased exports. The Lahijan deputy pointed out that the unipolar system and the bullying threats of the United States are pushing other countries towards Asian and South American markets and could be beneficial for the expansion of ties. Pointing to the country's high unemployment, he added that the Foreign Ministry should try to solve this problem by sending unemployed skilled workers to foreign countries. Nadimi said that the public is demanding overall development and officials should work hard to develop and expand ties with foreign countries. He had earlier questioned Foreign Ministry officials about the ministry's weak approach in enhancing economic ties with other countries and their failure to facilitate investment by Iranian expatriates. In response, Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said that the ministry and all its officials would try to pave the way for economic activities of Iranian expatriates. The response, however, has not convinced Nadimi and he plans to bring the issue up during an open session of the Majlis.
                  The Lahijan deputy pointed out that the unipolar system and the bullying threats of the United States are pushing other countries towards Asian and South American markets and could be beneficial for the expansion of ties. Pointing to the country's high unemployment, he added that the Foreign Ministry should try to solve this problem by sending unemployed skilled workers to foreign countries. Nadimi said that the public is demanding overall development and officials should work hard to develop and expand ties with foreign countries. He had earlier questioned Foreign Ministry officials about the ministry's weak approach in enhancing economic ties with other countries and their failure to facilitate investment by Iranian expatriates. In response, Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said that the ministry and all its officials would try to pave the way for economic activities of Iranian expatriates. The response, however, has not convinced Nadimi and he plans to bring the issue up during an open session of the Majlis.
                  Nadimi said that the public is demanding overall development and officials should work hard to develop and expand ties with foreign countries. He had earlier questioned Foreign Ministry officials about the ministry's weak approach in enhancing economic ties with other countries and their failure to facilitate investment by Iranian expatriates. In response, Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said that the ministry and all its officials would try to pave the way for economic activities of Iranian expatriates. The response, however, has not convinced Nadimi and he plans to bring the issue up during an open session of the Majlis.
                  In response, Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said that the ministry and all its officials would try to pave the way for economic activities of Iranian expatriates. The response, however, has not convinced Nadimi and he plans to bring the issue up during an open session of the Majlis.
                  The response, however, has not convinced Nadimi and he plans to bring the issue up during an open session of the Majlis.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.