In its bid to boost trade relations with the chambers of commerce of other countries, The TCCIM recently held Iran’s Economy Day in Spain, Portugal and Italy, Mohammad Nahavandian stated. “In our meetings with representatives of the private sectors from Spain, Portugal and Italy we realized that there exists a very favorable condition for Iran’s commercial activities in these countries,” Nahavandian told a meeting of the Tehran Chamber representatives which was attended by parliamentarian Raf’at Bayat and Hassan Taherain from Foreign Ministry tasked with economic affairs. Following the recent amendment to the Article 44 of the Constitution the foreign investors said their feeling of investment security in Iran has increased, he noted. Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei issued an executive order on July 5 for privatization of state companies as envisaged by Article 44 of the Constitution. Regarding the growing interest of foreign investors in finding about the new investment environment in the country, the private sector should help the government in clarifying the pros and cons of economic activities in Iran, Nahavandian underlined. It has always been the government which has been trying to establish commercial ties with the foreigners but now the private sector should reflect the “real economic face of Iran” to other countries, he argued. The trained economist said it is necessary that Iran’s embassies in foreign countries support the private sector, adding, “The TCCIM is prepared to plan the new duties of embassies with the private sector in charge of most of activities.” He said Iranian embassies are currently incapable of giving enough information to foreign investors.
                  “In our meetings with representatives of the private sectors from Spain, Portugal and Italy we realized that there exists a very favorable condition for Iran’s commercial activities in these countries,” Nahavandian told a meeting of the Tehran Chamber representatives which was attended by parliamentarian Raf’at Bayat and Hassan Taherain from Foreign Ministry tasked with economic affairs. Following the recent amendment to the Article 44 of the Constitution the foreign investors said their feeling of investment security in Iran has increased, he noted. Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei issued an executive order on July 5 for privatization of state companies as envisaged by Article 44 of the Constitution. Regarding the growing interest of foreign investors in finding about the new investment environment in the country, the private sector should help the government in clarifying the pros and cons of economic activities in Iran, Nahavandian underlined. It has always been the government which has been trying to establish commercial ties with the foreigners but now the private sector should reflect the “real economic face of Iran” to other countries, he argued. The trained economist said it is necessary that Iran’s embassies in foreign countries support the private sector, adding, “The TCCIM is prepared to plan the new duties of embassies with the private sector in charge of most of activities.” He said Iranian embassies are currently incapable of giving enough information to foreign investors.
                  Following the recent amendment to the Article 44 of the Constitution the foreign investors said their feeling of investment security in Iran has increased, he noted. Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei issued an executive order on July 5 for privatization of state companies as envisaged by Article 44 of the Constitution. Regarding the growing interest of foreign investors in finding about the new investment environment in the country, the private sector should help the government in clarifying the pros and cons of economic activities in Iran, Nahavandian underlined. It has always been the government which has been trying to establish commercial ties with the foreigners but now the private sector should reflect the “real economic face of Iran” to other countries, he argued. The trained economist said it is necessary that Iran’s embassies in foreign countries support the private sector, adding, “The TCCIM is prepared to plan the new duties of embassies with the private sector in charge of most of activities.” He said Iranian embassies are currently incapable of giving enough information to foreign investors.
                  Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei issued an executive order on July 5 for privatization of state companies as envisaged by Article 44 of the Constitution. Regarding the growing interest of foreign investors in finding about the new investment environment in the country, the private sector should help the government in clarifying the pros and cons of economic activities in Iran, Nahavandian underlined. It has always been the government which has been trying to establish commercial ties with the foreigners but now the private sector should reflect the “real economic face of Iran” to other countries, he argued. The trained economist said it is necessary that Iran’s embassies in foreign countries support the private sector, adding, “The TCCIM is prepared to plan the new duties of embassies with the private sector in charge of most of activities.” He said Iranian embassies are currently incapable of giving enough information to foreign investors.
                  Regarding the growing interest of foreign investors in finding about the new investment environment in the country, the private sector should help the government in clarifying the pros and cons of economic activities in Iran, Nahavandian underlined. It has always been the government which has been trying to establish commercial ties with the foreigners but now the private sector should reflect the “real economic face of Iran” to other countries, he argued. The trained economist said it is necessary that Iran’s embassies in foreign countries support the private sector, adding, “The TCCIM is prepared to plan the new duties of embassies with the private sector in charge of most of activities.” He said Iranian embassies are currently incapable of giving enough information to foreign investors.
                  It has always been the government which has been trying to establish commercial ties with the foreigners but now the private sector should reflect the “real economic face of Iran” to other countries, he argued. The trained economist said it is necessary that Iran’s embassies in foreign countries support the private sector, adding, “The TCCIM is prepared to plan the new duties of embassies with the private sector in charge of most of activities.” He said Iranian embassies are currently incapable of giving enough information to foreign investors.
                  He said Iranian embassies are currently incapable of giving enough information to foreign investors.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.