The mosque was commissioned by Jahanshah at the request of his wife Khatunjan Beygom, and was supervised Ezzeddin Qapuchi and it was finished in 1465. The artists and architectures of the time created a piece of artwork with the help of beautiful tiles in different colors including azure, blue, black and white in the mo’arraq (intarsia) style of work which is the best tilework style in the world of Islam. Through various delicate arabesque patterns, a unique work was created which experts believe to be unsurpassed in taste, talent and delicacy in the world of Islam. Large spaces, proportions of its different sections, and the decoration have created such an artistic piece which caresses the eyes of every viewer. The walls of the main shabistan (nightly prayer chamber) covered with colorful tiles and patterns and holy verses, have increased the beauty of the mosque. The most beautiful tileworks are found in the mihrab (prayer niche). Arabesque patterns, intarsia covering and beautiful tileworks add more beauty to the mihrab. The arabesque on the walls is quite innovative and unique by which later artists of the Safavid era were inspired. The main entrance of the mosque with intarsia work of tileworks, Qur’anic inscriptions, and tableaus of Kufic calligraphy are the most wonderful intarsia sample of Islamic era. Various Kufic calligraphy, and Turkish and arabesque patterns with beautiful colors are all created by the famous calligrapher of the 15th century Ne’matollah Bin Mohammad Bavab. Family burial chamber of Jahanshah is also located at the southern part of the mosque, having beautiful architecture, with its dado covered with inscriptions of verses of the Holy Qur’an. The azure tiles in decoration of the chamber bespeak the taste and talent of the then artists who sought to show such beauty and dignity with the help of simple hexangular-shaped tiles. According to some evidence, the construction of the mosque was halted after the murder of Jahanshah in 1467. It was later finished in the time of Sultan Ya’qub.  The brick dome of the mosque is considered as one of the largest brickwork of Islamic architecture of the 15th century.
                  The artists and architectures of the time created a piece of artwork with the help of beautiful tiles in different colors including azure, blue, black and white in the mo’arraq (intarsia) style of work which is the best tilework style in the world of Islam. Through various delicate arabesque patterns, a unique work was created which experts believe to be unsurpassed in taste, talent and delicacy in the world of Islam. Large spaces, proportions of its different sections, and the decoration have created such an artistic piece which caresses the eyes of every viewer. The walls of the main shabistan (nightly prayer chamber) covered with colorful tiles and patterns and holy verses, have increased the beauty of the mosque. The most beautiful tileworks are found in the mihrab (prayer niche). Arabesque patterns, intarsia covering and beautiful tileworks add more beauty to the mihrab. The arabesque on the walls is quite innovative and unique by which later artists of the Safavid era were inspired. The main entrance of the mosque with intarsia work of tileworks, Qur’anic inscriptions, and tableaus of Kufic calligraphy are the most wonderful intarsia sample of Islamic era. Various Kufic calligraphy, and Turkish and arabesque patterns with beautiful colors are all created by the famous calligrapher of the 15th century Ne’matollah Bin Mohammad Bavab. Family burial chamber of Jahanshah is also located at the southern part of the mosque, having beautiful architecture, with its dado covered with inscriptions of verses of the Holy Qur’an. The azure tiles in decoration of the chamber bespeak the taste and talent of the then artists who sought to show such beauty and dignity with the help of simple hexangular-shaped tiles. According to some evidence, the construction of the mosque was halted after the murder of Jahanshah in 1467. It was later finished in the time of Sultan Ya’qub.  The brick dome of the mosque is considered as one of the largest brickwork of Islamic architecture of the 15th century.
                  Through various delicate arabesque patterns, a unique work was created which experts believe to be unsurpassed in taste, talent and delicacy in the world of Islam. Large spaces, proportions of its different sections, and the decoration have created such an artistic piece which caresses the eyes of every viewer. The walls of the main shabistan (nightly prayer chamber) covered with colorful tiles and patterns and holy verses, have increased the beauty of the mosque. The most beautiful tileworks are found in the mihrab (prayer niche). Arabesque patterns, intarsia covering and beautiful tileworks add more beauty to the mihrab. The arabesque on the walls is quite innovative and unique by which later artists of the Safavid era were inspired. The main entrance of the mosque with intarsia work of tileworks, Qur’anic inscriptions, and tableaus of Kufic calligraphy are the most wonderful intarsia sample of Islamic era. Various Kufic calligraphy, and Turkish and arabesque patterns with beautiful colors are all created by the famous calligrapher of the 15th century Ne’matollah Bin Mohammad Bavab. Family burial chamber of Jahanshah is also located at the southern part of the mosque, having beautiful architecture, with its dado covered with inscriptions of verses of the Holy Qur’an. The azure tiles in decoration of the chamber bespeak the taste and talent of the then artists who sought to show such beauty and dignity with the help of simple hexangular-shaped tiles. According to some evidence, the construction of the mosque was halted after the murder of Jahanshah in 1467. It was later finished in the time of Sultan Ya’qub.  The brick dome of the mosque is considered as one of the largest brickwork of Islamic architecture of the 15th century.
                  Large spaces, proportions of its different sections, and the decoration have created such an artistic piece which caresses the eyes of every viewer. The walls of the main shabistan (nightly prayer chamber) covered with colorful tiles and patterns and holy verses, have increased the beauty of the mosque. The most beautiful tileworks are found in the mihrab (prayer niche). Arabesque patterns, intarsia covering and beautiful tileworks add more beauty to the mihrab. The arabesque on the walls is quite innovative and unique by which later artists of the Safavid era were inspired. The main entrance of the mosque with intarsia work of tileworks, Qur’anic inscriptions, and tableaus of Kufic calligraphy are the most wonderful intarsia sample of Islamic era. Various Kufic calligraphy, and Turkish and arabesque patterns with beautiful colors are all created by the famous calligrapher of the 15th century Ne’matollah Bin Mohammad Bavab. Family burial chamber of Jahanshah is also located at the southern part of the mosque, having beautiful architecture, with its dado covered with inscriptions of verses of the Holy Qur’an. The azure tiles in decoration of the chamber bespeak the taste and talent of the then artists who sought to show such beauty and dignity with the help of simple hexangular-shaped tiles. According to some evidence, the construction of the mosque was halted after the murder of Jahanshah in 1467. It was later finished in the time of Sultan Ya’qub.  The brick dome of the mosque is considered as one of the largest brickwork of Islamic architecture of the 15th century.
                  The most beautiful tileworks are found in the mihrab (prayer niche). Arabesque patterns, intarsia covering and beautiful tileworks add more beauty to the mihrab. The arabesque on the walls is quite innovative and unique by which later artists of the Safavid era were inspired. The main entrance of the mosque with intarsia work of tileworks, Qur’anic inscriptions, and tableaus of Kufic calligraphy are the most wonderful intarsia sample of Islamic era. Various Kufic calligraphy, and Turkish and arabesque patterns with beautiful colors are all created by the famous calligrapher of the 15th century Ne’matollah Bin Mohammad Bavab. Family burial chamber of Jahanshah is also located at the southern part of the mosque, having beautiful architecture, with its dado covered with inscriptions of verses of the Holy Qur’an. The azure tiles in decoration of the chamber bespeak the taste and talent of the then artists who sought to show such beauty and dignity with the help of simple hexangular-shaped tiles. According to some evidence, the construction of the mosque was halted after the murder of Jahanshah in 1467. It was later finished in the time of Sultan Ya’qub.  The brick dome of the mosque is considered as one of the largest brickwork of Islamic architecture of the 15th century.
                  The main entrance of the mosque with intarsia work of tileworks, Qur’anic inscriptions, and tableaus of Kufic calligraphy are the most wonderful intarsia sample of Islamic era. Various Kufic calligraphy, and Turkish and arabesque patterns with beautiful colors are all created by the famous calligrapher of the 15th century Ne’matollah Bin Mohammad Bavab. Family burial chamber of Jahanshah is also located at the southern part of the mosque, having beautiful architecture, with its dado covered with inscriptions of verses of the Holy Qur’an. The azure tiles in decoration of the chamber bespeak the taste and talent of the then artists who sought to show such beauty and dignity with the help of simple hexangular-shaped tiles. According to some evidence, the construction of the mosque was halted after the murder of Jahanshah in 1467. It was later finished in the time of Sultan Ya’qub.  The brick dome of the mosque is considered as one of the largest brickwork of Islamic architecture of the 15th century.
                  Family burial chamber of Jahanshah is also located at the southern part of the mosque, having beautiful architecture, with its dado covered with inscriptions of verses of the Holy Qur’an. The azure tiles in decoration of the chamber bespeak the taste and talent of the then artists who sought to show such beauty and dignity with the help of simple hexangular-shaped tiles. According to some evidence, the construction of the mosque was halted after the murder of Jahanshah in 1467. It was later finished in the time of Sultan Ya’qub.  The brick dome of the mosque is considered as one of the largest brickwork of Islamic architecture of the 15th century.
                  According to some evidence, the construction of the mosque was halted after the murder of Jahanshah in 1467. It was later finished in the time of Sultan Ya’qub.  The brick dome of the mosque is considered as one of the largest brickwork of Islamic architecture of the 15th century.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.