In its bid to be able to move 33.6 million passengers targeted by the nation’s Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (2004-2009), the Railroad of the Islamic Republic of Iran (RAJA), will need to purchase 1,800 passenger coaches, noted Mohsen Purseyyedaqaii, the company’s managing director. The railroad company has managed to add 580 passenger carriages to its fleet during the two first years of the fourth plan 90 of which have been imported by the private sector, said the official in his comments during the opening of a specialized exhibition of transportation and transit. The railroad company director also called for the private sector’s further cooperation and investment in the area to assist it provide the nation’s rail transportation requirements. RAJA company is planning to buy 1,000 additional passenger wagons for the nation’s rail transportation network, he said adding that the company has recently signed agreements for the purchase of 800 coaches. Iran’s Ministry of Defense is to build 220 passenger wagons for the railroad company, a report said on Sunday. In addition to the contract, Shahid Kolahduz, an industrial complex affiliated to the Ministry of Defense will assemble 120 other wagons for the railroad company. Iranian Minister of Roads and Transportation Mohammad Rahmati, Minister of Defense Mostafa Mohammad Najjar as well as a number of other officials attended the opening ceremony of the four-day exhibition.
                  The railroad company has managed to add 580 passenger carriages to its fleet during the two first years of the fourth plan 90 of which have been imported by the private sector, said the official in his comments during the opening of a specialized exhibition of transportation and transit. The railroad company director also called for the private sector’s further cooperation and investment in the area to assist it provide the nation’s rail transportation requirements. RAJA company is planning to buy 1,000 additional passenger wagons for the nation’s rail transportation network, he said adding that the company has recently signed agreements for the purchase of 800 coaches. Iran’s Ministry of Defense is to build 220 passenger wagons for the railroad company, a report said on Sunday. In addition to the contract, Shahid Kolahduz, an industrial complex affiliated to the Ministry of Defense will assemble 120 other wagons for the railroad company. Iranian Minister of Roads and Transportation Mohammad Rahmati, Minister of Defense Mostafa Mohammad Najjar as well as a number of other officials attended the opening ceremony of the four-day exhibition.
                  The railroad company director also called for the private sector’s further cooperation and investment in the area to assist it provide the nation’s rail transportation requirements. RAJA company is planning to buy 1,000 additional passenger wagons for the nation’s rail transportation network, he said adding that the company has recently signed agreements for the purchase of 800 coaches. Iran’s Ministry of Defense is to build 220 passenger wagons for the railroad company, a report said on Sunday. In addition to the contract, Shahid Kolahduz, an industrial complex affiliated to the Ministry of Defense will assemble 120 other wagons for the railroad company. Iranian Minister of Roads and Transportation Mohammad Rahmati, Minister of Defense Mostafa Mohammad Najjar as well as a number of other officials attended the opening ceremony of the four-day exhibition.
                  RAJA company is planning to buy 1,000 additional passenger wagons for the nation’s rail transportation network, he said adding that the company has recently signed agreements for the purchase of 800 coaches. Iran’s Ministry of Defense is to build 220 passenger wagons for the railroad company, a report said on Sunday. In addition to the contract, Shahid Kolahduz, an industrial complex affiliated to the Ministry of Defense will assemble 120 other wagons for the railroad company. Iranian Minister of Roads and Transportation Mohammad Rahmati, Minister of Defense Mostafa Mohammad Najjar as well as a number of other officials attended the opening ceremony of the four-day exhibition.
                  Iran’s Ministry of Defense is to build 220 passenger wagons for the railroad company, a report said on Sunday. In addition to the contract, Shahid Kolahduz, an industrial complex affiliated to the Ministry of Defense will assemble 120 other wagons for the railroad company. Iranian Minister of Roads and Transportation Mohammad Rahmati, Minister of Defense Mostafa Mohammad Najjar as well as a number of other officials attended the opening ceremony of the four-day exhibition.
                  Iranian Minister of Roads and Transportation Mohammad Rahmati, Minister of Defense Mostafa Mohammad Najjar as well as a number of other officials attended the opening ceremony of the four-day exhibition.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.