Speaking on the occasion of Government Week, he added that the figure is Rls.53,320 billion higher than the similar period in the year before. He also lamented the harsh criticism the banking system has received over its role in spurring economic growth. He said that about 44 percent of the banking system facilities was allocated to industrial sector last year, with agricultural sector's share topping 15 percent, construction 14 percent, and housing and services sectors five and seven percent, respectively. Bahmani said that as part of the 'Emergency Employment Plan' over Rls.9,000 billion of credit facilities is to be allocated to the banking system, IRNA said. Given the priority that the government plans ascribe to the industrial sector, Governor of Central Bank of Iran (CBI) Mohsen Nourbakhsh said here late July that given the successful and good performance of the industrial and mining sectors in the last two years, more investment should be made in the said sectors. Speaking at a Seminar on Industry and Mine, he added that the valued-added in industrial sector was eight and 10 percent last year and the year before that respectively. The plans implemented in industries showed 7.7 percent growth last year, he stated. The investment growth also registered 14.4 percent and 11.2 percent growth over the two past years, he said. He underlined the important impacts of such variables as value-added and said economic growth is continuing as a general trend. "If we want a better performance in the industrial sector, then we should continue our efforts," he noted. Nourbakhsh said: "A sample taken last year showed that out of 54 different manufacturing units, 44 have shown good pace of growth."
                  He also lamented the harsh criticism the banking system has received over its role in spurring economic growth. He said that about 44 percent of the banking system facilities was allocated to industrial sector last year, with agricultural sector's share topping 15 percent, construction 14 percent, and housing and services sectors five and seven percent, respectively. Bahmani said that as part of the 'Emergency Employment Plan' over Rls.9,000 billion of credit facilities is to be allocated to the banking system, IRNA said. Given the priority that the government plans ascribe to the industrial sector, Governor of Central Bank of Iran (CBI) Mohsen Nourbakhsh said here late July that given the successful and good performance of the industrial and mining sectors in the last two years, more investment should be made in the said sectors. Speaking at a Seminar on Industry and Mine, he added that the valued-added in industrial sector was eight and 10 percent last year and the year before that respectively. The plans implemented in industries showed 7.7 percent growth last year, he stated. The investment growth also registered 14.4 percent and 11.2 percent growth over the two past years, he said. He underlined the important impacts of such variables as value-added and said economic growth is continuing as a general trend. "If we want a better performance in the industrial sector, then we should continue our efforts," he noted. Nourbakhsh said: "A sample taken last year showed that out of 54 different manufacturing units, 44 have shown good pace of growth."
                  He said that about 44 percent of the banking system facilities was allocated to industrial sector last year, with agricultural sector's share topping 15 percent, construction 14 percent, and housing and services sectors five and seven percent, respectively. Bahmani said that as part of the 'Emergency Employment Plan' over Rls.9,000 billion of credit facilities is to be allocated to the banking system, IRNA said. Given the priority that the government plans ascribe to the industrial sector, Governor of Central Bank of Iran (CBI) Mohsen Nourbakhsh said here late July that given the successful and good performance of the industrial and mining sectors in the last two years, more investment should be made in the said sectors. Speaking at a Seminar on Industry and Mine, he added that the valued-added in industrial sector was eight and 10 percent last year and the year before that respectively. The plans implemented in industries showed 7.7 percent growth last year, he stated. The investment growth also registered 14.4 percent and 11.2 percent growth over the two past years, he said. He underlined the important impacts of such variables as value-added and said economic growth is continuing as a general trend. "If we want a better performance in the industrial sector, then we should continue our efforts," he noted. Nourbakhsh said: "A sample taken last year showed that out of 54 different manufacturing units, 44 have shown good pace of growth."
                  Bahmani said that as part of the 'Emergency Employment Plan' over Rls.9,000 billion of credit facilities is to be allocated to the banking system, IRNA said. Given the priority that the government plans ascribe to the industrial sector, Governor of Central Bank of Iran (CBI) Mohsen Nourbakhsh said here late July that given the successful and good performance of the industrial and mining sectors in the last two years, more investment should be made in the said sectors. Speaking at a Seminar on Industry and Mine, he added that the valued-added in industrial sector was eight and 10 percent last year and the year before that respectively. The plans implemented in industries showed 7.7 percent growth last year, he stated. The investment growth also registered 14.4 percent and 11.2 percent growth over the two past years, he said. He underlined the important impacts of such variables as value-added and said economic growth is continuing as a general trend. "If we want a better performance in the industrial sector, then we should continue our efforts," he noted. Nourbakhsh said: "A sample taken last year showed that out of 54 different manufacturing units, 44 have shown good pace of growth."
                  Given the priority that the government plans ascribe to the industrial sector, Governor of Central Bank of Iran (CBI) Mohsen Nourbakhsh said here late July that given the successful and good performance of the industrial and mining sectors in the last two years, more investment should be made in the said sectors. Speaking at a Seminar on Industry and Mine, he added that the valued-added in industrial sector was eight and 10 percent last year and the year before that respectively. The plans implemented in industries showed 7.7 percent growth last year, he stated. The investment growth also registered 14.4 percent and 11.2 percent growth over the two past years, he said. He underlined the important impacts of such variables as value-added and said economic growth is continuing as a general trend. "If we want a better performance in the industrial sector, then we should continue our efforts," he noted. Nourbakhsh said: "A sample taken last year showed that out of 54 different manufacturing units, 44 have shown good pace of growth."
                  Speaking at a Seminar on Industry and Mine, he added that the valued-added in industrial sector was eight and 10 percent last year and the year before that respectively. The plans implemented in industries showed 7.7 percent growth last year, he stated. The investment growth also registered 14.4 percent and 11.2 percent growth over the two past years, he said. He underlined the important impacts of such variables as value-added and said economic growth is continuing as a general trend. "If we want a better performance in the industrial sector, then we should continue our efforts," he noted. Nourbakhsh said: "A sample taken last year showed that out of 54 different manufacturing units, 44 have shown good pace of growth."
                  The investment growth also registered 14.4 percent and 11.2 percent growth over the two past years, he said. He underlined the important impacts of such variables as value-added and said economic growth is continuing as a general trend. "If we want a better performance in the industrial sector, then we should continue our efforts," he noted. Nourbakhsh said: "A sample taken last year showed that out of 54 different manufacturing units, 44 have shown good pace of growth."
                  He underlined the important impacts of such variables as value-added and said economic growth is continuing as a general trend. "If we want a better performance in the industrial sector, then we should continue our efforts," he noted. Nourbakhsh said: "A sample taken last year showed that out of 54 different manufacturing units, 44 have shown good pace of growth."
                  "If we want a better performance in the industrial sector, then we should continue our efforts," he noted. Nourbakhsh said: "A sample taken last year showed that out of 54 different manufacturing units, 44 have shown good pace of growth."
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.