He made the remarks in a meeting with the Iranian ambassador to Thailand, adding that the development of science, research and technology plays a decisive role in upgrading capability of countries. The minister pointed to high capability of the two countries in educational, scientific and technical sectors and said that cooperation on those domains should be put on bilateral agenda. "Scientific progress will be available through exchange of experts to get acquainted with achievements of other nations," he said. Welcoming signing memoranda of understandings among private and public universities of the two countries, he added that such cooperation will help train manpower for the academic centers. Iranian ambassador to Thailand, for his part, referred to the increase of communication between universities and scientific and research centers as a major element to upgrade knowledge and promote the culture of scientific thinking in societies. Mohsen Pak-Aiin also expressed Iran's readiness to enlist Thai students in its universities. Pointing to the role of cooperation in international arenas to expand mutual exchanges, he added that such international cooperation will improve educational system and training students methods respecting global standards to gain academic job opportunities. Conducting joint research and consulting on projects, holding short and long-term educational courses, training workshops and national and international conferences and seminars are among the grounds for bilateral cooperation between the two countries, he added.
                  The minister pointed to high capability of the two countries in educational, scientific and technical sectors and said that cooperation on those domains should be put on bilateral agenda. "Scientific progress will be available through exchange of experts to get acquainted with achievements of other nations," he said. Welcoming signing memoranda of understandings among private and public universities of the two countries, he added that such cooperation will help train manpower for the academic centers. Iranian ambassador to Thailand, for his part, referred to the increase of communication between universities and scientific and research centers as a major element to upgrade knowledge and promote the culture of scientific thinking in societies. Mohsen Pak-Aiin also expressed Iran's readiness to enlist Thai students in its universities. Pointing to the role of cooperation in international arenas to expand mutual exchanges, he added that such international cooperation will improve educational system and training students methods respecting global standards to gain academic job opportunities. Conducting joint research and consulting on projects, holding short and long-term educational courses, training workshops and national and international conferences and seminars are among the grounds for bilateral cooperation between the two countries, he added.
                  "Scientific progress will be available through exchange of experts to get acquainted with achievements of other nations," he said. Welcoming signing memoranda of understandings among private and public universities of the two countries, he added that such cooperation will help train manpower for the academic centers. Iranian ambassador to Thailand, for his part, referred to the increase of communication between universities and scientific and research centers as a major element to upgrade knowledge and promote the culture of scientific thinking in societies. Mohsen Pak-Aiin also expressed Iran's readiness to enlist Thai students in its universities. Pointing to the role of cooperation in international arenas to expand mutual exchanges, he added that such international cooperation will improve educational system and training students methods respecting global standards to gain academic job opportunities. Conducting joint research and consulting on projects, holding short and long-term educational courses, training workshops and national and international conferences and seminars are among the grounds for bilateral cooperation between the two countries, he added.
                  Welcoming signing memoranda of understandings among private and public universities of the two countries, he added that such cooperation will help train manpower for the academic centers. Iranian ambassador to Thailand, for his part, referred to the increase of communication between universities and scientific and research centers as a major element to upgrade knowledge and promote the culture of scientific thinking in societies. Mohsen Pak-Aiin also expressed Iran's readiness to enlist Thai students in its universities. Pointing to the role of cooperation in international arenas to expand mutual exchanges, he added that such international cooperation will improve educational system and training students methods respecting global standards to gain academic job opportunities. Conducting joint research and consulting on projects, holding short and long-term educational courses, training workshops and national and international conferences and seminars are among the grounds for bilateral cooperation between the two countries, he added.
                  Iranian ambassador to Thailand, for his part, referred to the increase of communication between universities and scientific and research centers as a major element to upgrade knowledge and promote the culture of scientific thinking in societies. Mohsen Pak-Aiin also expressed Iran's readiness to enlist Thai students in its universities. Pointing to the role of cooperation in international arenas to expand mutual exchanges, he added that such international cooperation will improve educational system and training students methods respecting global standards to gain academic job opportunities. Conducting joint research and consulting on projects, holding short and long-term educational courses, training workshops and national and international conferences and seminars are among the grounds for bilateral cooperation between the two countries, he added.
                  Mohsen Pak-Aiin also expressed Iran's readiness to enlist Thai students in its universities. Pointing to the role of cooperation in international arenas to expand mutual exchanges, he added that such international cooperation will improve educational system and training students methods respecting global standards to gain academic job opportunities. Conducting joint research and consulting on projects, holding short and long-term educational courses, training workshops and national and international conferences and seminars are among the grounds for bilateral cooperation between the two countries, he added.
                  Pointing to the role of cooperation in international arenas to expand mutual exchanges, he added that such international cooperation will improve educational system and training students methods respecting global standards to gain academic job opportunities. Conducting joint research and consulting on projects, holding short and long-term educational courses, training workshops and national and international conferences and seminars are among the grounds for bilateral cooperation between the two countries, he added.
                  Conducting joint research and consulting on projects, holding short and long-term educational courses, training workshops and national and international conferences and seminars are among the grounds for bilateral cooperation between the two countries, he added.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.