Some 15 credited companies from France, Spain, the Netherlands, Greece, Denmark, Germany and also four marine industries related groups from Sharjah, Abu Dhabi, and Dubai will take part in the exhibition, the executive manager of the exposition Mohammad Safavi said here on Tuesday. Iran's first International Sea Industries Exhibition and fifth Sea Industries Conference will be held on Kish Island with the cooperation of Kish Free Trade Zone Organization and Iran's Sea Industries Association. Safavi added that 70 local companies affiliated to private and public sectors and 15 foreign firms will display their latest products in the exhibition. He reiterated that the purpose of the exhibition is to display capabilities of the country in the field of sea industries and the latest achievements made in this field and relevant technologies at the international level. Building and maintaining ships and ports, marine structures, loading, evacuating and dredging equipment, marine facilities and systems, electricity, communications, navigation systems for ships, oceanography, production lines, technical and engineering services and marine transportation will be displayed in the exhibition, Safavi added. He also stressed that holding such an exhibition would provide a good opportunity for national and foreign visitors to negotiate, besides its significant impact on expanding trade ties. Referring to transfer of annually 6 billion tons of commodities by sea, Safavi said that implementation of the North-South Corridor plan will help accelerate sea transportation and lead to increasing jobs and employment opportunities throughout the country.
                  Iran's first International Sea Industries Exhibition and fifth Sea Industries Conference will be held on Kish Island with the cooperation of Kish Free Trade Zone Organization and Iran's Sea Industries Association. Safavi added that 70 local companies affiliated to private and public sectors and 15 foreign firms will display their latest products in the exhibition. He reiterated that the purpose of the exhibition is to display capabilities of the country in the field of sea industries and the latest achievements made in this field and relevant technologies at the international level. Building and maintaining ships and ports, marine structures, loading, evacuating and dredging equipment, marine facilities and systems, electricity, communications, navigation systems for ships, oceanography, production lines, technical and engineering services and marine transportation will be displayed in the exhibition, Safavi added. He also stressed that holding such an exhibition would provide a good opportunity for national and foreign visitors to negotiate, besides its significant impact on expanding trade ties. Referring to transfer of annually 6 billion tons of commodities by sea, Safavi said that implementation of the North-South Corridor plan will help accelerate sea transportation and lead to increasing jobs and employment opportunities throughout the country.
                  Safavi added that 70 local companies affiliated to private and public sectors and 15 foreign firms will display their latest products in the exhibition. He reiterated that the purpose of the exhibition is to display capabilities of the country in the field of sea industries and the latest achievements made in this field and relevant technologies at the international level. Building and maintaining ships and ports, marine structures, loading, evacuating and dredging equipment, marine facilities and systems, electricity, communications, navigation systems for ships, oceanography, production lines, technical and engineering services and marine transportation will be displayed in the exhibition, Safavi added. He also stressed that holding such an exhibition would provide a good opportunity for national and foreign visitors to negotiate, besides its significant impact on expanding trade ties. Referring to transfer of annually 6 billion tons of commodities by sea, Safavi said that implementation of the North-South Corridor plan will help accelerate sea transportation and lead to increasing jobs and employment opportunities throughout the country.
                  He reiterated that the purpose of the exhibition is to display capabilities of the country in the field of sea industries and the latest achievements made in this field and relevant technologies at the international level. Building and maintaining ships and ports, marine structures, loading, evacuating and dredging equipment, marine facilities and systems, electricity, communications, navigation systems for ships, oceanography, production lines, technical and engineering services and marine transportation will be displayed in the exhibition, Safavi added. He also stressed that holding such an exhibition would provide a good opportunity for national and foreign visitors to negotiate, besides its significant impact on expanding trade ties. Referring to transfer of annually 6 billion tons of commodities by sea, Safavi said that implementation of the North-South Corridor plan will help accelerate sea transportation and lead to increasing jobs and employment opportunities throughout the country.
                  systems, electricity, communications, navigation systems for ships, oceanography, production lines, technical and engineering services and marine transportation will be displayed in the exhibition, Safavi added. He also stressed that holding such an exhibition would provide a good opportunity for national and foreign visitors to negotiate, besides its significant impact on expanding trade ties. Referring to transfer of annually 6 billion tons of commodities by sea, Safavi said that implementation of the North-South Corridor plan will help accelerate sea transportation and lead to increasing jobs and employment opportunities throughout the country.
                  He also stressed that holding such an exhibition would provide a good opportunity for national and foreign visitors to negotiate, besides its significant impact on expanding trade ties. Referring to transfer of annually 6 billion tons of commodities by sea, Safavi said that implementation of the North-South Corridor plan will help accelerate sea transportation and lead to increasing jobs and employment opportunities throughout the country.
                  Referring to transfer of annually 6 billion tons of commodities by sea, Safavi said that implementation of the North-South Corridor plan will help accelerate sea transportation and lead to increasing jobs and employment opportunities throughout the country.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.