In the meeting, the two sides signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) on job creation and the setting up of technical and recreational courses in the country. According to the Public Relations Department of the Labor Ministry, the MOU was signed on the second round of the joint meeting. Highlighting the MOU as a "new chapter" in Iran and European Union cooperation, Hosseini expressed hope that their collective efforts would lead to the early implementation of the agreement. The Belgian minister, for her part, referred to her country's determination to broaden ties with Iran. According to the signed MOU, the two sides are obliged to boost social dialogue, conduct collective negotiations, and support labor unions. Belgium is now committed to transfer its experiences in the technical and vocational fields, train instructors, standardize required job skills and hold training courses in a bid to create jobs for women in Iran. The Islamic Republic of Iran also voiced readiness to collaborate with Belgium to help train Afghan women. A joint committee is to be formed to follow up implementation of the signed agreement. The Belgian deputy prime minister and minister of employment, heading a delegation, arrived in Tehran on Tuesday and is to depart the country on Thursday night.
                  According to the Public Relations Department of the Labor Ministry, the MOU was signed on the second round of the joint meeting. Highlighting the MOU as a "new chapter" in Iran and European Union cooperation, Hosseini expressed hope that their collective efforts would lead to the early implementation of the agreement. The Belgian minister, for her part, referred to her country's determination to broaden ties with Iran. According to the signed MOU, the two sides are obliged to boost social dialogue, conduct collective negotiations, and support labor unions. Belgium is now committed to transfer its experiences in the technical and vocational fields, train instructors, standardize required job skills and hold training courses in a bid to create jobs for women in Iran. The Islamic Republic of Iran also voiced readiness to collaborate with Belgium to help train Afghan women. A joint committee is to be formed to follow up implementation of the signed agreement. The Belgian deputy prime minister and minister of employment, heading a delegation, arrived in Tehran on Tuesday and is to depart the country on Thursday night.
                  Highlighting the MOU as a "new chapter" in Iran and European Union cooperation, Hosseini expressed hope that their collective efforts would lead to the early implementation of the agreement. The Belgian minister, for her part, referred to her country's determination to broaden ties with Iran. According to the signed MOU, the two sides are obliged to boost social dialogue, conduct collective negotiations, and support labor unions. Belgium is now committed to transfer its experiences in the technical and vocational fields, train instructors, standardize required job skills and hold training courses in a bid to create jobs for women in Iran. The Islamic Republic of Iran also voiced readiness to collaborate with Belgium to help train Afghan women. A joint committee is to be formed to follow up implementation of the signed agreement. The Belgian deputy prime minister and minister of employment, heading a delegation, arrived in Tehran on Tuesday and is to depart the country on Thursday night.
                  The Belgian minister, for her part, referred to her country's determination to broaden ties with Iran. According to the signed MOU, the two sides are obliged to boost social dialogue, conduct collective negotiations, and support labor unions. Belgium is now committed to transfer its experiences in the technical and vocational fields, train instructors, standardize required job skills and hold training courses in a bid to create jobs for women in Iran. The Islamic Republic of Iran also voiced readiness to collaborate with Belgium to help train Afghan women. A joint committee is to be formed to follow up implementation of the signed agreement. The Belgian deputy prime minister and minister of employment, heading a delegation, arrived in Tehran on Tuesday and is to depart the country on Thursday night.
                  According to the signed MOU, the two sides are obliged to boost social dialogue, conduct collective negotiations, and support labor unions. Belgium is now committed to transfer its experiences in the technical and vocational fields, train instructors, standardize required job skills and hold training courses in a bid to create jobs for women in Iran. The Islamic Republic of Iran also voiced readiness to collaborate with Belgium to help train Afghan women. A joint committee is to be formed to follow up implementation of the signed agreement. The Belgian deputy prime minister and minister of employment, heading a delegation, arrived in Tehran on Tuesday and is to depart the country on Thursday night.
                  Belgium is now committed to transfer its experiences in the technical and vocational fields, train instructors, standardize required job skills and hold training courses in a bid to create jobs for women in Iran. The Islamic Republic of Iran also voiced readiness to collaborate with Belgium to help train Afghan women. A joint committee is to be formed to follow up implementation of the signed agreement. The Belgian deputy prime minister and minister of employment, heading a delegation, arrived in Tehran on Tuesday and is to depart the country on Thursday night.
                  The Islamic Republic of Iran also voiced readiness to collaborate with Belgium to help train Afghan women. A joint committee is to be formed to follow up implementation of the signed agreement. The Belgian deputy prime minister and minister of employment, heading a delegation, arrived in Tehran on Tuesday and is to depart the country on Thursday night.
                  A joint committee is to be formed to follow up implementation of the signed agreement. The Belgian deputy prime minister and minister of employment, heading a delegation, arrived in Tehran on Tuesday and is to depart the country on Thursday night.
                  The Belgian deputy prime minister and minister of employment, heading a delegation, arrived in Tehran on Tuesday and is to depart the country on Thursday night.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.