In a meeting with several thousand commanders of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) and families of the martyrs and several hundred victims of chemical warfare, the Leader extended felicitations on the advent of the lunar month of Sha'ban and the auspicious occasions of Rajab (outgoing lunar month) and the upcoming fasting month of Ramazan. Muslims celebrate the lunar month of Rajab for its auspicious 13th day, the birth anniversary of Imam Ali (AS), the first Imam of Prophet Mohammad infallible Household and the lunar month of Sha'ban for its auspicious 15th day on which Imam Mahdi (may God hasten his reappearance) was born. The Leader called on the Muslims to use the auspicious occasions to promote their moral strength, social integration and religious identity. Quoting verses from the holy Qoran, the Leader said that the Iranian nation has proved that mountains of difficulties can be overcome through reliance upon the divine help. Ayatollah Khamenei said that Islamic teachings helped Iranian nation achieve two miracles, first, victory over the U.S.-backed Pahlavi regime and the second, was defeating Iraqi regime which imposed war on Iran with the support of all the world powers. "The enlightened hearts and the iron-like spirit helped the nation to score the two great victories," the Leader said. "Right now, the same process goes on through reliance on the religious inspiration and high spirit in the field of economy, science and every field the nation needs to make other progress," the Leader said. Elsewhere in his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the United States has proved its enmity to the Islamic nations who have grievances over the propaganda launched against Islam by the notorious Western propaganda machines and networks.
                  Muslims celebrate the lunar month of Rajab for its auspicious 13th day, the birth anniversary of Imam Ali (AS), the first Imam of Prophet Mohammad infallible Household and the lunar month of Sha'ban for its auspicious 15th day on which Imam Mahdi (may God hasten his reappearance) was born. The Leader called on the Muslims to use the auspicious occasions to promote their moral strength, social integration and religious identity. Quoting verses from the holy Qoran, the Leader said that the Iranian nation has proved that mountains of difficulties can be overcome through reliance upon the divine help. Ayatollah Khamenei said that Islamic teachings helped Iranian nation achieve two miracles, first, victory over the U.S.-backed Pahlavi regime and the second, was defeating Iraqi regime which imposed war on Iran with the support of all the world powers. "The enlightened hearts and the iron-like spirit helped the nation to score the two great victories," the Leader said. "Right now, the same process goes on through reliance on the religious inspiration and high spirit in the field of economy, science and every field the nation needs to make other progress," the Leader said. Elsewhere in his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the United States has proved its enmity to the Islamic nations who have grievances over the propaganda launched against Islam by the notorious Western propaganda machines and networks.
                  The Leader called on the Muslims to use the auspicious occasions to promote their moral strength, social integration and religious identity. Quoting verses from the holy Qoran, the Leader said that the Iranian nation has proved that mountains of difficulties can be overcome through reliance upon the divine help. Ayatollah Khamenei said that Islamic teachings helped Iranian nation achieve two miracles, first, victory over the U.S.-backed Pahlavi regime and the second, was defeating Iraqi regime which imposed war on Iran with the support of all the world powers. "The enlightened hearts and the iron-like spirit helped the nation to score the two great victories," the Leader said. "Right now, the same process goes on through reliance on the religious inspiration and high spirit in the field of economy, science and every field the nation needs to make other progress," the Leader said. Elsewhere in his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the United States has proved its enmity to the Islamic nations who have grievances over the propaganda launched against Islam by the notorious Western propaganda machines and networks.
                  Quoting verses from the holy Qoran, the Leader said that the Iranian nation has proved that mountains of difficulties can be overcome through reliance upon the divine help. Ayatollah Khamenei said that Islamic teachings helped Iranian nation achieve two miracles, first, victory over the U.S.-backed Pahlavi regime and the second, was defeating Iraqi regime which imposed war on Iran with the support of all the world powers. "The enlightened hearts and the iron-like spirit helped the nation to score the two great victories," the Leader said. "Right now, the same process goes on through reliance on the religious inspiration and high spirit in the field of economy, science and every field the nation needs to make other progress," the Leader said. Elsewhere in his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the United States has proved its enmity to the Islamic nations who have grievances over the propaganda launched against Islam by the notorious Western propaganda machines and networks.
                  Ayatollah Khamenei said that Islamic teachings helped Iranian nation achieve two miracles, first, victory over the U.S.-backed Pahlavi regime and the second, was defeating Iraqi regime which imposed war on Iran with the support of all the world powers. "The enlightened hearts and the iron-like spirit helped the nation to score the two great victories," the Leader said. "Right now, the same process goes on through reliance on the religious inspiration and high spirit in the field of economy, science and every field the nation needs to make other progress," the Leader said. Elsewhere in his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the United States has proved its enmity to the Islamic nations who have grievances over the propaganda launched against Islam by the notorious Western propaganda machines and networks.
                  "The enlightened hearts and the iron-like spirit helped the nation to score the two great victories," the Leader said. "Right now, the same process goes on through reliance on the religious inspiration and high spirit in the field of economy, science and every field the nation needs to make other progress," the Leader said. Elsewhere in his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the United States has proved its enmity to the Islamic nations who have grievances over the propaganda launched against Islam by the notorious Western propaganda machines and networks.
                  "Right now, the same process goes on through reliance on the religious inspiration and high spirit in the field of economy, science and every field the nation needs to make other progress," the Leader said. Elsewhere in his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the United States has proved its enmity to the Islamic nations who have grievances over the propaganda launched against Islam by the notorious Western propaganda machines and networks.
                  Elsewhere in his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the United States has proved its enmity to the Islamic nations who have grievances over the propaganda launched against Islam by the notorious Western propaganda machines and networks.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.