TEHRAN – Shaikh Ghazi Honainah, a member of the leadership of the Islamic Action Front in Lebanon, believes that the motive that drove the French president to back the sacrilegious cartoons against the Prophet of Islam by the Charlie Hebdo magazine is that he wants to “identify himself with the American Zionism.”  Shaikh Honainah tells the Tehran Times that Emanuel Macron endorsed insulting Islam and its Prophet Muhammad to “identify himself with the American Zionism, which bears arrogant hostility to Mohammad as the Messenger of God and his message.” “The message of Prophet Mohammad has become today worldwide despite all efforts to distort the true image of the Messenger and Islam,” the Lebanese cleric emphasizes. The following is the text of the interview: Q:    Last month, French President Emanuel Macron publicly attacked Islam in defense of the publication of the derogatory cartoons of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) under the pretext of freedom of speech. What do you think of his remarks?  A: Regarding the recent remarks of the French president, in which he endorsed the aggressive approach of the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo towards Islam and the Messenger of Islam, I should say that this is a president of a country that claims civilization, advancement, enlightenment, human rights, and addresses freedom, equality, and justice.  This president takes this stance as if he is an ordinary person in the street. I think the motive that drove him to make such a remark is that he wants to identify himself with the American Zionism, which bears arrogant hostility to Mohammad as the Messenger of God and his message.  The message of Prophet Mohammad has become today worldwide despite all attempts to distort the true image of the Messenger and Islam. Macron wants to show his loyalty to global Zionism and the new Freemasonry to gain their green light for his second presidential bid.  Otherwise, why should someone on the level of the president of the French Republic, who represents France in the world, take such a position? France is an important member of the (UN) Security Council and has a key role in resolving disputes in the region, especially in Lebanon. Therefore, he wants to make propaganda against Islam and its Prophet in order to use it as a trump card in the upcoming French election. Q: What are the definitions and limits of freedom in Islam? A: Islamic education came to found basic principles of human societies' lives; tolerant religion focuses on permanent principles, namely freedom, justice, and equality that never change, whether for Muslims or non-Muslims. Perhaps these principles are consistent with the slogans of the French Revolution. For example, about "freedom," God said, "There shall be no compulsion in religion" (Al-Baqarah -256), and in Surah Yunus Ayah 99, it is said that "Had your Lord willed, everyone on earth would have believed. Will you compel people to become believers?" God also said, "The truth is from your Lord. Whoever wills—let him believe. And whoever wills—let him disbelieve." (Al-Kahf -30). That is why Almighty God said in his holy book, "You have no control over them." (Al-Ghashiyah – 22) Hence we understand that Islamic educations endorse the concept of freedom: freedom of opinion, freedom of expression, freedom of belief, freedom of worship, and freedom of thought. Therefore, the Islamic source mentioned the second caliphate asked person, "Why did you enslave people when their mothers gave birth to them free?"  The Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said, "All of you are Adam's sons, and Adam was created out of the dust of the ground. Therefore, from the standpoint of equality in Islamic educations, all people have equal rights, and duties at all levels, the rich and the poor, men and women, young and old, Arab and non-Arab, all people in the eyes of Islam are equal. This freedom, which Islam affirmed, does not give the right to attack others and violate others' rights. Therefore, according to Islamic law, our freedom ends when the rights of others begin. In Islam, we do not have the right to assault the beliefs of others. God asks us, "Do not insult those they call upon besides God, lest they insult God out of hostility and ignorance" (Al-An'am -108).  That is why the Messenger of God forbade us from humiliating others' dignity or insulting them, even in times of war. Prophet asked us not to scorn people who believe in a different way and those who are out of Islam. Therefore, freedom in this peaceful religion has limits, and we have not right to assault the sanctities and beliefs of others. Q: What is the right way to respond to the West’s provocative moves against Islam? A: First of all, I emphasize that calling Islam and spreading its message among people needs a peaceful atmosphere as societies should be open to each other and cherish dialogue and communication. The first step is to open doors and bridge divides so that people will be aware of their bonds, gather them, and communicate and debate for what is beneficial for humanity and human society.  Therefore, these provocative moves and actions in France undoubtedly lead to undermining relations between people, cutting off communication, and further strife, and this does not serve the interests of peace and Muslims. In our relations with people, we need to address them calmly, within a reasonable argument, and with sound logic. Our position should be strong, and with a bright thought, we can defend Islam. Therefore, the repercussions of the attack on others' sanctities and beliefs will trigger the hatred and reaction of others against all Muslims as a whole.  This is harmful to Islam and Muslims as the number of Muslims is increasing drastically in the West. This is what worries Muslims' enemies in those societies and frightens those who see that the spread of Islam as a threat to their future. Violent reactions do not serve the relationships between people and also the peaceful coexistence between Muslims and others. Q:  How do you assess the reaction of Islamic countries and their leaders to Macron's statements? A: What we noticed in the recent period after re-infusion of the poisons of insulting the Messenger of God and supported by the French president, showed that the Islamic states and regimes, except a few of them, went into a deep coma or took sleeping pills as if what happened does not concern them, especially those who consider themselves the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We have not heard a position or condemnation from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, neither at the official level nor from its nation. Unfortunately, this is what hurts us and grieves us and makes us feel that the Arab regimes do not care about Islamic causes and issues: peace, mercy, and blessings of God. Q: Do you confirm violence in response to insult to the Prophet of Islam? A: As Muslims, we have our way of defending Islamic sanctity; we have to deal with this issue differently. As long as the issue was in this context, we avoid insulting others' sanctuaries, greatness, and prophets, whether he is Jesus, peace be upon him, or his mother Virgin Mary, peace be upon her, or Prophet Moses, peace be upon him. If others offend Muslims, we are forbidden from insulting any prophet on earth. God says, "The Messenger has believed in what was revealed to him from his Lord, as did the believers. They all have believed in God and His angels and His scriptures and His messengers. The believers make no distinction between any of His messengers" (Al-Baqarah- 285).  Therefore our reaction is to argue with them in the best manner as God said, "Do not argue with the People of the Scripture except in the best manner possible, except those who do wrong among them. And say, 'We believe in what was revealed to us, and in what was revealed to you, and our God and your God is One,  and to Him we are submissive.'"  We have in Quran that God made a covenant with the Children of Israel to worship none but God and be good to parents, and relatives, and orphans, and the needy; and speak nicely to people.  But beheading of a teacher in France in response to insulting Islam and its Prophet is not acceptable. Any attack against Christians and churches is condemned in Islam, according to Prophet Muhammad's educations.   All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.