These days, the voice of opposition to Trump's regional policies is heard all over the world louder than ever. Even the closest White House allies in Europe and in the West Asia region don't have the strength and dare to defend Donald Trump's recent action in announcing Jerusalem as the capital of the Zionist regime. 
Undoubtedly, the severity of the global condemnations against the U.S. president and the occupation regime of Jerusalem will limit the power of Trump and his entourage in the region. However, we need to have a more comprehensive understanding of the opposition to the recent action by the President of the United States. This "comprehensive understanding" is possible in the shadow of "intelligent observation" of the positions of international system players, and distinguishing between their positions. A. Tactical opposition: Some players in the international system, such as Britain and Saudi Arabia, have been fully and accurately aware of the process of identifying Jerusalem as the capital of the Zionist regime within the one-year period since the presidency of Trump, and were even involved in completing this process. These players in fact support the announcement of Jerusalem as the capital of the Zionist regime and the move of the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem, but have opted to oppose this decision in order to stop the anger of their people. Over the past years and decades, these players have shown that they are following the White House's game in the region, and that their policies and behaviors are adjusted in such a way that they don't conflict with the long-term or short-term goals of the United States. The recent visit of the Bahraini authorities to the occupied territories (which is considered the first official engagement of the regime of Al-Khalifa and the Zionist regime) has taken place with the green light of Riyadh and London. The trip took place right at the peak of the global protests against Trump and the announcement of Jerusalem as the capital of the Zionist regime. One of the goals of this visit is to reduce global pressures on Tel Aviv, and the Zionist regime's escape from global and regional isolation. This visit alone shows the formal and tactical rejection of Riyadh and London to Trump's recent action. B. Subordinate Opposition: The opposition of the European Union and the United Nations Secretary-General to the recent action of Donald Trump is a "subordinate opposition". In other words, they are opposed to these positions for a different reason (and not for defending Quds' ideals). This is the "two-state solution" and "peace talks" that they have in mind. European leaders are opposed to White House action because of the destructive impact of Trump's recent action on peace talks in the region. The United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has also expressed opposition to the recent move by the U.S. government to announce Jerusalem as the capital of the Zionist regime and mentioned that this will endanger peace talks in the region. True Opposition: The true opposition to Trump's action is based on Palestinian aspirations and is the result of the commitment of Muslims and free men and women all over the world to liberate Jerusalem from the occupying regime. The opposition of Muslim nations and resistance movements and countries like the Islamic Republic of Iran with the announcement of Quds as the capital of the Zionist regime is based on this kind of glance. In the face of these three types of opposition, the United States will pursue three solutions: "bargaining", "management" and "confrontation." In other words, the U.S. government starts to bargain over Quds with the first group of opponents (tactical opponents) and basically defines them inside its own strategic and regional puzzle. In the case of the second group (subordinate opponents), Washington is also trying to manage them through continuous negotiations. Experience has shown that the United States' only concern regarding the second type of its opponents is about the psychological impact of their propaganda against itself, and in case of a war between the Zionist regime and the oppressed people of Palestine in the region, no danger threatens the U.S. by this second group. But those players who stray Washington's strategic, regional, and even tactical calculations in the region are real and true opponents of Trump's recent action. Here, Washington is faced with an incalculable, irresistible and dynamic component called "resistance thinking". During the 2006 conflict between the Zionist regime and Lebanese Hezbollah fighters, the United States and Israel failed to calculate the power of the third group, the real opponents of Washington and Tel Aviv (the supporters of the resistance movement), and ultimately the had to accept a most difficult failure of the warriors Hezbollah. This was while they didn't have the slightest concern for the tactical opponents of the 33-day war. During the 22-day, 8-day, and 52-day Gazan resistance, this was the resistance thinking and its crystallization in the battlefield that could tarnish Tel Aviv and its supporters. What is certain is that true followers of resistance thinking, those that their opposition to the policies of Washington and Tel Aviv is "real", will turn Jerusalem into a code name of defamation and the destruction for Trump at the White House. It is noteworthy that as time goes by, the opposition to Trump and his decision is becoming more powerful. Undoubtedly, this opposition is neither computable nor negotiable! Recently, the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution, in a decisive and wise statement, stated that this move by the enemies of Islam about the declaration of Quds as the capital of the Zionist regime is the result of their inability and inferiority, and mentioned: "The Islamic world will undoubtedly stand against this conspiracy, and this will hit the Zionists even harder, and the beloved Palestine will eventually be released."
As it's evident by the words of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution, Washington and Tel Aviv will see the consequences of their announcement of Jerusalem as the capital of the Zionist regime. Trump has unwittingly signed the document of the Zionist regime's collapse. A collapse that its process would accelerate in the shadow of the holy hatred of people all around the world and the Islamic countries against Tel Aviv and Washington.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.