TEHRAN _ Over the decades, the domestic and foreign policy of the United States has been full of phenomena and events that their dark side has never been disclosed to public opinion or even to American citizens. An implausible point is that even the American media are committed to the invisible red lines designed by their security agencies, including the CIA and the federal police so that such cases are never to be covered.  One of these cases occurred precisely during the 2016 presidential campaigns in the United States. Even now, for many who follow the U.S. election analyzes, the issue of "change in support" by AIPAC lobby from Ted Cruz to Donald Trump is questionable. Indeed, what happened when Netanyahu, the prime minister of the Zionist regime, and the leaders of the two parties of Likud and Yisrael-Beiteinu, preferred to disregard Texas CED Senator Ted Cruz's service and chose Trump as the president of the United States? Everybody knows that Ted Cruz had tougher positions than Trump towards the JCPOA.  It was Ted Cruz, the 46-year-old Republican senator, who for the first time in the last year's presidential campaigns, raised the issue of tearing up the JCPOA. He had even promised to the AIPAC lobby to cancel the nuclear deal quickly and without any hesitation if he entered the White House. Therefore, in order to understand Tel Aviv's support for Trump in the last year's elections, it's necessary to look for more important factors than the "Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action". The fact is that Jared Kushner, the 36-year-old Jewish son in law of Donald Trump, who played a very active role in his electoral team, decided to use "Jerusalem as the capital of Israel" as Trump's last chance to win against Ted Cruz.  In the midst of Republican rivalries, Kushner had several meetings with the Zionist regime authorities and the leaders of the AIPAC lobby. He and Donald Trump told Tel Aviv that they would accept the risk incurred by the announcement of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and the move of the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem.  Netanyahu understood that Donald Trump, since he wasn't really a Republican member, and because of his opposition to the Democrats, could serve him, and could fulfil this demand of the Zionists far better than Ted Cruz demand that even President George W. Bush did not succeed to fulfil during his presidency in the years between 2000 and 2008. Under these circumstances, Netanyahu and the AIPAC lobby ceased to support Ted Cruz and simply backed Donald Trump. Even they forced Ted Cruz to announce his support for Trump against Hillary Clinton in September 2016. Donald Trump started to accomplish his promises to Netanyahu and the IPAC lobby immediately after entering the White House. In February 2017, about a month after Trump's presidency, "Jerusalem Post", the Zionist newspaper, announced the presence of eleven Jewish figures at senior governmental positions in the United States including people like Jarad Kushner, Jason Greenblatt "And" David Friedman ". The common denominator of these politicians who were to serve mostly in the two fields of foreign policy and the U.S. economy, was the support of Zionist settlements and the move of the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. In August this year, Jared Kushner met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on a trip to the occupied territories. The main agenda of the parties was to make preparations for the declaration of Quds as the capital of the Zionist Regime and the move of the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. A month later, Netanyahu travelled to New York to attend the UN General Assembly.  On this trip, the prime minister of the Zionist regime and the President of the United States made an agreement on the proclamation of Jerusalem as the capital of the occupied territories. It is worth mentioning that almost none of the American news agencies has spoken neither of this agreements between Netanyahu and Trump nor of the ongoing efforts of Kushner and his entourage to declare Quds as the capital of the occupied territories! Undoubtedly, the recent act by the government of Donald Trump to declare Jerusalem as the capital of the Zionist regime, beyond being a deadlock for a two-state solution or a so-called peace deal, was the final shot on the compromise discourse in Palestine and in the region.   "Abu Mazen" (Mahmoud Abbas), the President of the State of Palestine and Palestinian National Authority,who was still confused among ambiguous words and terms raised by the Camp David and Oslo treaties, and was considering the speeches and positions of the two Democratic and Republican officials in the pursuit of "American-Zionist" peace, is remained shocked with his eyes wide open. Now he sees that all his dreams are gone. The United States would not even stay committed to the discourse that it had created in the region! In this situation, the status of Washington's other commitments in the international system is quite clear. Obviously, the recent action by Trump's government has once again proved the authority and authenticity of the Resistance discourse to everyone. Today, people all around the world can once again see that a strategic and even tactical game on Washington's ground would lead to nothing but failure and defeat.  Today it's time for those who advocate the compromise discourse against the resistance discourse for resolving the Palestinian issue to fully review their positions. There is no longer any excuses to support the compromise discourse in dealing with the United States and the Zionist regime. While today, the advocates of compromise discourse are struck by this late action of the U.S. government, the discourse of resistance is developing more dynamically than ever in Palestine and in the region. The crystallization of this discourse will be the beginning of the new Intifada in Palestine. An Intifada that will spread all over Palestine, including the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, and will turn into a nightmare for the occupying regime of Quds, and the United States and their regional mercenaries.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.