Shamkhani, currently in the Armenian capital Yerevan, made the remarks in answer to a question on the possible presence of U.S. troops in Georgia. He underlined that any military cooperation should contribute to peace in the region and help stabilize regional states. The Iranian minister added that Iran is willing to expand its political, economic and cultural ties with Armenia. Shamkhani held talks with his Armenian counterpart yesterday on the first day of his 2-day trip to Yerevan. According to the Defense Propagation Department of the Defense Ministry, the two ministers studied expansion of defense cooperation between the two countries. During the meeting, Shamkhani underscored that regional countries had to cooperate in order to establish peace and security in the region and also to reduce the interference of foreigners. On the current international situation, Shamkhani said that it was necessary to increase understanding among regional countries and respect the individual identity and independence of countries. Armenian Defense Minister Serge Sarkissian thanked Iran for its efforts at restoring peace and stability in the Cacausus and called for peaceful cooperation between Tehran and Yerevan, saying it could contribute to regional security.
                  He underlined that any military cooperation should contribute to peace in the region and help stabilize regional states. The Iranian minister added that Iran is willing to expand its political, economic and cultural ties with Armenia. Shamkhani held talks with his Armenian counterpart yesterday on the first day of his 2-day trip to Yerevan. According to the Defense Propagation Department of the Defense Ministry, the two ministers studied expansion of defense cooperation between the two countries. During the meeting, Shamkhani underscored that regional countries had to cooperate in order to establish peace and security in the region and also to reduce the interference of foreigners. On the current international situation, Shamkhani said that it was necessary to increase understanding among regional countries and respect the individual identity and independence of countries. Armenian Defense Minister Serge Sarkissian thanked Iran for its efforts at restoring peace and stability in the Cacausus and called for peaceful cooperation between Tehran and Yerevan, saying it could contribute to regional security.
                  The Iranian minister added that Iran is willing to expand its political, economic and cultural ties with Armenia. Shamkhani held talks with his Armenian counterpart yesterday on the first day of his 2-day trip to Yerevan. According to the Defense Propagation Department of the Defense Ministry, the two ministers studied expansion of defense cooperation between the two countries. During the meeting, Shamkhani underscored that regional countries had to cooperate in order to establish peace and security in the region and also to reduce the interference of foreigners. On the current international situation, Shamkhani said that it was necessary to increase understanding among regional countries and respect the individual identity and independence of countries. Armenian Defense Minister Serge Sarkissian thanked Iran for its efforts at restoring peace and stability in the Cacausus and called for peaceful cooperation between Tehran and Yerevan, saying it could contribute to regional security.
                  Shamkhani held talks with his Armenian counterpart yesterday on the first day of his 2-day trip to Yerevan. According to the Defense Propagation Department of the Defense Ministry, the two ministers studied expansion of defense cooperation between the two countries. During the meeting, Shamkhani underscored that regional countries had to cooperate in order to establish peace and security in the region and also to reduce the interference of foreigners. On the current international situation, Shamkhani said that it was necessary to increase understanding among regional countries and respect the individual identity and independence of countries. Armenian Defense Minister Serge Sarkissian thanked Iran for its efforts at restoring peace and stability in the Cacausus and called for peaceful cooperation between Tehran and Yerevan, saying it could contribute to regional security.
                  According to the Defense Propagation Department of the Defense Ministry, the two ministers studied expansion of defense cooperation between the two countries. During the meeting, Shamkhani underscored that regional countries had to cooperate in order to establish peace and security in the region and also to reduce the interference of foreigners. On the current international situation, Shamkhani said that it was necessary to increase understanding among regional countries and respect the individual identity and independence of countries. Armenian Defense Minister Serge Sarkissian thanked Iran for its efforts at restoring peace and stability in the Cacausus and called for peaceful cooperation between Tehran and Yerevan, saying it could contribute to regional security.
                  During the meeting, Shamkhani underscored that regional countries had to cooperate in order to establish peace and security in the region and also to reduce the interference of foreigners. On the current international situation, Shamkhani said that it was necessary to increase understanding among regional countries and respect the individual identity and independence of countries. Armenian Defense Minister Serge Sarkissian thanked Iran for its efforts at restoring peace and stability in the Cacausus and called for peaceful cooperation between Tehran and Yerevan, saying it could contribute to regional security.
                  On the current international situation, Shamkhani said that it was necessary to increase understanding among regional countries and respect the individual identity and independence of countries. Armenian Defense Minister Serge Sarkissian thanked Iran for its efforts at restoring peace and stability in the Cacausus and called for peaceful cooperation between Tehran and Yerevan, saying it could contribute to regional security.
                  Armenian Defense Minister Serge Sarkissian thanked Iran for its efforts at restoring peace and stability in the Cacausus and called for peaceful cooperation between Tehran and Yerevan, saying it could contribute to regional security.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.