TEHRAN – The Islamic Revolution of Iran has been a matter of great concern for America, Britain, Israel and the West since 1979 and it seems it will continue to be so in the future. The American government has viewed the Islamic Republic of Iran as a hostile nation since the tenure of former U.S. President Jimmy Carter.   U.S allies, such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Israel, and Saudi Arabia, have been coerced to follow Uncle’s Sam’s footsteps in an effort to demonize the sovereign nation of Iran.  Though the above-mentioned countries have attempted to cripple the Iranian economy via a harsh and unjust embargo and oppressive sanctions, they have failed to do so due to the formidable spirit of the Iranian people and their great sense of nationalism which was defined in the Islamic Revolution of 1979. In recent years, certain members of the international community in Europe have distanced themselves from American’s provocation to alienate Iran from actively taking part in world commerce and banking.  This was clearly evidence by the enthusiasm certain members of the United Nations Security Council (United Kingdom, Russia, France, and China—plus Germany) demonstrated by signing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action in 2015. Comprehensive revolution When a nation faces an external enemy, its priority will be to survive in the face of its rivals. This focus on external forces causes internal reforms to slow down and after a while the system will face internal challenges that appear to be unmanageable. Iran’s progress validates the expansion of the nation’s internal democracy, an increase in the influence of the Supreme Leader, not to mention advancement and achievement in science, industry and defense. The Islamic Republic’s successful efforts in addressing complex regional issues demonstrates that notwithstanding the constant meddling by the West, it is able to continue its pursuit of progress and development. The massive and persistent support of the Iranian people who defend the revolution is the result of domestic stability and its significant strategic position. The reality of Iran and chaos  The Islamic Republic of Iran like other countries of the world has its problems, limitations, but in economic affairs it faces fewer problems than its west Asian and neighboring countries. In Iran food prices, shipping fees, medical care costs, educational fees and others are all less than those in its neighboring countries whereas per capita income of Iranian people is higher than citizens in the neighboring countries. On the other hand, in comparison to previous regime the quality of life in Iran has much improved. Cost income curve in a fixed axis has moved toward being logical. Access of general population of Iran to opportunities and different positions which in the world are known as Development indicators shows that Islamic revolution and politics of Islamic republic has many positive effects on people’s lives and although limitations against Iran has slowed its speed in some cases but has not stopped its ongoing. As far as about two months ago Imam Khamenei in a meeting with some foreigner guests clarified that Iran has passed difficult conditions and pressures are declining. At the same time some of fault internal politics and their role in recent chaos should be mentioned. People in Iran are not satisfied with method that government of President Rouhani applies. Although policy of Inflation control of his government was successful but this policy was accompanied with downturn in economy.  Government with the goal of setting up the economic wheels of country and to boost economic situation increased the costs of governmental services 50 to 100 percent that was illogical and was considered a shock. The policy of increasing costs of governmental services will improve the Economy of Tomorrow but it will challenge Today’s Economy, hence even though economic experts assume it necessary and useful but people feel more economic pressure and start to resist against these policies. It should be mentioned that political competition and party contradictions in a country which is managed on the base of selection and vote of people helps to magnify problems in the country and form the protests which demand for reforms. Intense focus of political competitors on the economic failures and inefficiency of management which during the last months and after Dr. Rouhani’s reselection as president has increased  and this has disappointed people from fast resolving of present problems and has shown a negative perspective of economic situation of country. In the meantime, the U.S government paid special attention on domestic disagreements which were caused from economic situation in Iran. They believed that domestic disagreements has disintegrated the society of Iran and has caused conflicts inside Iran. From the perspective of the Americans economic pressures on Iran will make more problems for Iran and these problems will push opponents to more conflicts with the government. In the theory of Americans separation of Islamic republic system to two divisions is the condition of its collapse. In the meantime American officials have accounted on the experience of 2009 and are reviewing their policies about this. Trump and other American officials who think like him have emphasized several times that they cannot act like the past and to intensify social protests and to combine protests with destruction of public places in order to vitiate domestic security will use all their facilities. The five days experience of chaos from December 28, 2017 to January 1, of 2018 showed that despite American expectation, Iran’s economic pressure and social effects of democracy has not been able to damage the integration of Iranian society. The unity of Iranian officials in confronting the chaos and unrest in Iran as well as Iranian institutions showed an integrated picture of Iran. The Leader of the Islamic revolution appreciated the role of people in rising up against the U.S. policies and their anti-Iran programs. He mentioned that against exaggerations of enemy in economic problems of Iran and negative image of Iranian officials but the improvement in economy of Iran is hopeful and governmental officials are seriously active to solve the current economic problems. He pointed to some social consequences of democracy and noted that he honestly accepts democracy and has always used my capacities on successes of president and representatives of people in parliament.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.