TEHRAN - Robert David Steele, a former Marine Corps infantry officer and CIA spy who was recommended for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2017, regularly answers questions for Tehran Times. Q: You have reviewed over 2,500 non-fiction books across 97 categories of non-fiction. At one point you were Amazon reviewer #25 and always the top Amazon reviewer for non-fiction. How did this happen? A: This was absolutely not planned. When Amazon first opened its book review feature over fifteen years ago, I had published two books, ON INTELLIGENCE: Spies and Secrecy in an Open World with a Foreword by Senator David Boren (D-OK), and THE NEW CRAFT OF INTELLIGENCE: Personal, Public, & Political with a Foreword by Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), each with an annotated bibliography for a total of 300 short reviews.  I loaded these on a week-end and was instantly Amazon reviewer 1,500. After that I started doing longer summary reviews for my own memory reasons, reading roughly two books a week, and the collection, which is free online, has grown. I removed my reviews from Amazon when they started banning books, reviewers, and specific reviews that their Zionist controllers considered “politically incorrect.”  Q. Many people in the Middle East consider Donald Trump to be totally subservient to Benjamin Netanyahu and the Zionists. You were an early supporter of Donald Trump, and are the author of the Trump Revolution Series. What books have you drawn on to evaluate President Donald Trump and the current White House? A. I tend to read books in threes – since no one including me has a complete grasp of anything, this allows me to compare and contrast views and arrive at a blended perspective. I have always understood that despite his minor flaws, Trump is the anti-Empire President. He is a nationalist not a globalist, and that means that he is on the side of people who work with their hands, not people who steal money with computers (bankers). When Michael Wolff’s Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House came out, I bought it but also bought Cory Lewandowsky and David Bossie’s Let Trump Be Trump: The Inside Story of His Rise to the Presidency, and Newt Gingrich’s Understanding Trump. My essay reviewing all three is free online. Q. What were your general conclusions from Fire & Fury and what did you draw from the other two books, Let Trump Be Trump and Understanding Trump? A. Fire and Fury was deliberate character assassination drawing heavily on leaks from people that President Trump trusted, such as Steve Bannon and Kellyanne Conway as well as Reince Preibus. Most people do not realize that the Republican Party considers Trump its enemy. The book is a long series of legally actionable defamatory statements with no supporting references (no endnotes). The primary purpose of the book was to assert that President Trump is mentally unstable and therefore should be removed from office under the 25th Amendment. The book also seeks to show that everyone around the President views him with disdain (partially true), that the White House is dysfunctional at the staff level (totally true), and that the President was not ready to govern (totally true but this is Zionist Jared Kushner’s fault, he destroyed the Presidential Transition Team’s twelve volumes of advance work). Let Trump Be Trump, by his second campaign manager (Roger Stone, my colleague, was his first), is a deeply authentic account of the campaign that makes it clear the President is attentive, dedicated, and a fast learner. This is the book that does the best job of documenting how our President is enthusiastically engaged with the people’s business, attentive to “extensive detail,” obsessive about details, and a fast learner. Trump is shown to be a versatile communicator with a gift for arriving at a simple message about a complex topic that the public will grasp immediately. Trump is, in brief, both authentic and a genius. Understanding Trump, by former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (one of the few people in Washington who reads as many books as I do) is important for its documentation of how Trump learns very fast, knows how to find experts who can brief him in an instant over the telephone, and is gifted as visualization and extemporaneous engagement. Speaker Gingrich also highlights some nuances about the President – Trump emphasizes speed rather than accuracy, adjusting quickly as needed, his approach to facts is a trial and error, learn by doing, pragmatic openness to feedback approach. The bottom line from this book is that Trump is a genius at managing “earned” or free media coverage, and his will to win cannot be over-stated. Q. Is the President mentally unstable? Is there any possibility of his being removed from office by his own Vice President using the 25th Amendment, by impeachment, or by assassination? A. No, President Trump is not mentally unstable. He has lost a tiny bit of his alertness – he can no longer do complex business mathematical calculations in his head – but this is easily addressed by Ketone Ester, which can also help individuals with autism. He earned top marks on his annual medical mental agility examination, and the Vice President cannot stab him in the back without a majority of the Cabinet agreeing, which will not happen. He might be impeached by the House but never convicted by the Senate; he has survived at least twelve, possibly fourteen assassination plots (not the same as direct attacks), and I believe the Secret Service is more competent and loyal today than it was when it collaborated in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Q. You are on record as considering the Vice President, Mike Pence, to be disloyal, lazy, and in need of replacement. Is there a book that you have reviewed making that case? A. Yes, but let me also say that in my capacity as Commissioner and Chief Counsel for the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into Human Trafficking and Child Sex Abuse, there exists witness testimony that causes me grave concern. While uncorroborated – I must of course stress that point – sources appear to place then Governor Pence in relation to pedophilia cover-ups and abuses as bad as those documented in The Franklin Scandal: A Story of Powerbrokers, Child Abuse & Betrayal.  The book that destroys Pence is by Michael D’Antonio and Peter Eisner, The Shadow President: The Truth About Mike Pence. The book, while also attacking Trump, documents Pence as being ignorant, lazy, delusional, and ambitious beyond his abilities. He manifests false humility, lives in an alternative reality in which God wants him to be President, and is a Zionist. George Will is said to have called him “America’s most repulsive public figure,” and with what I know now, I do not think Will was referring to Pence’s lack of social skills.  Pence is heavily indebted to drug and health care industry donors, is extreme in his opposition to science, is not intellectually curious, was a failure as a governor, and has been positively cruel on more than one occasion.  My longer review of this book is free online.  One source close to the President has told me that Pence has been caught telling major donors to the Trump campaign that he is “ready to replace the President” and Trump is fully aware of Pence’s limitations, ambitions, and disloyalty. Q. Who do you think would make a good Vice Presidential candidate if or when Trump runs in 2020? A. The Deep State is rolling out Kamela Harris. She is the intended winner of the Democratic primaries despite her many flaws. The Deep State is using Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand, both proven liars and opportunists – with Gillibrand also being a Zionist tool – and Tulsi Gabbard, a naïve young woman who really believes that 9/11 was done by “ragheads armed with box cutters” instead of – as I have amply documented in my Memoranda for the President: 9/11 Truth -- the Zionists enabled by Dick Cheney with cover-up services provided by Robert Mueller. I do not think Joe Biden will run, there are too many videos alleging his fondness for pedophilia out there, and he is too old – Trump would destroy him. So the “standard” that Trump has to meet is a woman and ideally a woman of color. While there are a tiny handful of black women and only a couple of Latina women in the Republican Party who might be viable on the national stage, none of them, in my view, combine the needed ingredients of authenticity, inclusiveness, and truthfulness that the President needs. Condolezza Rice is a Zionist tool and consigliere to the Bush Crime Family – it is bad enough that Bush has an Attorney General now from the Bush Crime Family, a Vice President as well would be the end of him. Angela McGlowan is most interesting and meets Trump’s top criteria, she is beautiful (while also being politically astute).  Alveda Celeste King is a niece of Martin Luther King Jr. but she is not from “central casting” and is unlikely to carry blacks or women across the country. I keep coming back to the Honorable Dr. Cynthia McKinney, six-term Congresswoman from Georgia and always a champion of human rights (e.g. Palestine) and an opponent of the Zionist occupation of the USA. What most people do not realize is that Trump understands that we must expel the Zionists from the US economy, US government, and US society. Q Anon has said this clearly: Zionists last (because they are the hardest). McKinney, who served as a Democratic Congresswoman, left that party to be the Presidential candidate for the Green Party, and remains today the single most powerful respected voice across black, female, and Independent/small party lines – the Democratic “Sandernistas” would no doubt find her – along with the right policy initiatives – a compelling reason to #WalkAway from the two-party tyranny and vote for the President as well as Independents and small party candidates for Congress such that neither of the two parties ever again controls Congress. McKinney would be violently opposed by the Republican “Establishment” which is precisely the point. She is a co-founder of #UNRIG – Election Integrity Act, and would work best as Vice President if Trump first embraced our twelve-point act as his own, which he needs to do because Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s HR 1 For the People is a scam, a fraud – it purports to offer election reform solutions while privatizing the drawing of Congressional District boundaries and setting the stage for non-citizens to vote.  If Trump forces Congress to pass #UNRIG – Election Integrity Act in 2019, selects McKinney as his Vice President, and creates the integrated two-way Trump Channel as I suggest in my memorandum Trump Triumph, he will go from 27% (those that voted for him in 2016) to 70%, and absolutely be the greatest President ever. Q. Coming back to books – you have reviewed Fear by Bob Woodward, Let Me Finish by Chris Christie, and Team of Vipers by Cliff Sims, whom the White House is taking to court for violating his confidentiality agreement. What did you draw from each of these books? A. FEAR: Trump in the White House was a media hit job based largely on lies from Steve Bannon, among others, and represents a very low standard in journalism – people do not seem to realize that Bob Woodward is a pimp for the Deep State, he is given his stories, he is not a real journalist such as Sy Hersh. In my longer review free online I itemize ten lies that Woodward tells in this book on behalf of the Deep State. He has one extraordinary statement in the entire book: QUOTE (298): The populist movement had shown that it didn’t have the force to break through the permanent political class.  Trump has been the armor-piercing shell that could pierce the Clinton part, but not the rest. The second major insight in Woodward’s book is that Trump is a master of leverage. For those that were deceived by globalist Gary Cohn’s stealing a letter from the President’s desk that was suspending the US – Korean Free Trade Agreement, I would point out that the last sentence of the letter says: “During this period, the United States is prepared to negotiate with the Republic of Korea on economic issues of concern to both countries.” What Woodward refuses to acknowledge is that this was Trump’s way of creating leverage.  Sheer genius undermined by all the globalist saboteurs surrounding Trump. The greatest value of the book for me, despite its heavy reliance on Bannon, a somewhat unstable source, is its focus on how Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump are a cancer in the White House — loose cannons, family second guessers constantly undermining the staffing process. I agree. Trump clearly has a blind spot for First Daughter, and has made a huge mistake in allowing her husband, a man who both CIA and MI-6 consider sexually and financially compromised by the Zionists, into the White House. To her credit, First Daughter is unfailingly polite and a wonderful surrogate for her father, but she should not be allowed to treat the US Government as her playpen. Let Me Finish -Trump, the Kushners, Bannon, New Jersey, and the Power of In-Your-Face Politics is an extremely important book because it may be the shocking expose the President needs to understand that Jared Kushner is destroying his presidency. The book exudes integrity. The transition team under Christie’s leadership put together twelve binders and had roughly four vetted candidates for each job of consequence.  This was thrown in the trash by Kushner, which not only cost Trump his first six months, but set the stage for the Office of Presidential Personnel (OPP) to be hijacked by the Republican Party establishment – Trump may not realize it, but he is being stabbed in the back daily by OPP and the establishment folk that OPP has placed while slow-rolling (not filling) most of the jobs.  I cannot articulate the depth of my scorn and disdain for Kushner – completely apart from his being an agent of a foreign power he appears to be a willful child who severely handicapped the President in his first year, and continues to sabotage the President today. I for one would like to see those twelve volumes published as a book in the traditional “Mandate for Change” series. There are many other valuable insights in the book, I list some of them in my longer review free online. Team of Vipers – My 500 Extraordinary Days in the Trump White House by Cliff Sims is one of the most extraordinary “insider” accounts about the White House I have ever read. While the President is upset about this book because it violates a confidentiality agreement signed by the author, I am quite certain the President not read the book and is being lied to by everyone in the White House about the author. This book honors the President and his gifts throughout, while naming, with very explicit credible details, everyone in the White House that is betraying the President, which is to say, everyone except Melania Trump, Ivanka Trump, and Hope Hicks (at the time). Steve Bannon is described as a psycho, underhanded, undisciplined, too Attention-Deficit-Disorder (ADD) to manage anything. Kellyanne Conway is dramatically exposed as the “leaker-in-chief” constantly bad-mouthing the President to reporters, while Omarosa Manigault, Trump’s “black wench,” is described as a world-class bitch despised by the black people she was supposed to cultivate on behalf of the President. My longer review, free online, itemizes what the book says about another twenty-five or so top aides in the White House, all negative with a few exceptions, generally campaign loyalists who have been marginalized by the Republican and Bush “establishment” figures seeking to “control” the President. Three quotes stand out, the first two explain why the White House does not work and the other explains why our President is potentially the greatest president ever: QUOTE (134): “we far too often focused on devouring one another. Cuthroat doesn’t even begin to describe it.” QUOTE (279): “The Trump White House staff was famously factionalized—RNC vs. campaign loyalists, establishment vs. MAGA, globalists vs. nationalists, free traders vs. protectionists.” QUOTE (Jack Welch on Donald Trump, 132): “They can say what they want about him, but I don’t know if any president has been more prepared to sit in that room and talk business. It was like talking to a peer, not a politician. Hell of a meeting.” My bottom line from these three books is that the President needs to clean out the White House – there are too many traitors undermining him. I earnestly believe he has no alternative but to remove Jared Kushner from the White House, remove the press from the White House, reconcile with Chris Christie and Chris Sims, and begin to think deeply about dumping Pence and sponsoring #UNRIG – Election Integrity Act. In my view, while President Trump has over 200 major successes that are not reported in the controlled Mainstream Media (MSM), he has been one third as effective as he could have been because of betrayal by Jared Kushner, Reince Priebus, and what Chris Christie correctly describes as “riff-raff” on the White House staff. There is every reason to invite Chris Christie to be the new Chief of Staff, a job Christie turned down when he knew Jared Kushner would be enthroned as the “shadow president.” Kushner and Pence out, Christie and McKinney in, and Trump will be the greatest president ever. “The truth at any cost lowers all others costs.” That is my motto. I estimate that today President Trump, despite his extraordinary talents and global reach, is working on the basis of 80% lies and at best 20% truth. He is all alone. He has the best of intentions. I ask that everyone read these books carefully, and give our President the benefit of the doubt. Access all of Robert Steele’s book reviews free online.  All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.