Speaking at the fourth Iran-Venezuela Joint Economic Commission meeting, he expounded on the documents signed by the two countries in recent years. "Out of 152 agreements, 27 belong to agriculture and cattle breeding sectors, 22 concern economic cooperation, 26 on energy and oil as well as nine on financial issues and investment. "Iranian and Venezuelan officials have so far inked four trade agreements, eight on construction and housing, two on tourism, six on sciences and technology, two on education, six on mining, nine on transport, and four on health." Expressing his satisfaction with the progress in implementing the documents, he said that Iranian companies can develop the trend of such cooperation by importing high quality products from his country. Turning to the high quality rice produced in Venezuela, the minister said that as an importer of rice, Iran can use such a potential to expand economic cooperation with his country. Khan noted that his country is a producer of rice, coffee, corn, sugar, and various tropical fruits. Underlining the need to broaden tripartite cooperation among Iran, Venezuela, and Cuba, he said that establishment of cement factory by the three states is the first step to this end. The minister said that Iran-Venezuela-Cuba tripartite cooperation should expand to include Bolivia, Ecuador, and Nicaragua.
                  "Out of 152 agreements, 27 belong to agriculture and cattle breeding sectors, 22 concern economic cooperation, 26 on energy and oil as well as nine on financial issues and investment. "Iranian and Venezuelan officials have so far inked four trade agreements, eight on construction and housing, two on tourism, six on sciences and technology, two on education, six on mining, nine on transport, and four on health." Expressing his satisfaction with the progress in implementing the documents, he said that Iranian companies can develop the trend of such cooperation by importing high quality products from his country. Turning to the high quality rice produced in Venezuela, the minister said that as an importer of rice, Iran can use such a potential to expand economic cooperation with his country. Khan noted that his country is a producer of rice, coffee, corn, sugar, and various tropical fruits. Underlining the need to broaden tripartite cooperation among Iran, Venezuela, and Cuba, he said that establishment of cement factory by the three states is the first step to this end. The minister said that Iran-Venezuela-Cuba tripartite cooperation should expand to include Bolivia, Ecuador, and Nicaragua.
                  "Iranian and Venezuelan officials have so far inked four trade agreements, eight on construction and housing, two on tourism, six on sciences and technology, two on education, six on mining, nine on transport, and four on health." Expressing his satisfaction with the progress in implementing the documents, he said that Iranian companies can develop the trend of such cooperation by importing high quality products from his country. Turning to the high quality rice produced in Venezuela, the minister said that as an importer of rice, Iran can use such a potential to expand economic cooperation with his country. Khan noted that his country is a producer of rice, coffee, corn, sugar, and various tropical fruits. Underlining the need to broaden tripartite cooperation among Iran, Venezuela, and Cuba, he said that establishment of cement factory by the three states is the first step to this end. The minister said that Iran-Venezuela-Cuba tripartite cooperation should expand to include Bolivia, Ecuador, and Nicaragua.
                  Expressing his satisfaction with the progress in implementing the documents, he said that Iranian companies can develop the trend of such cooperation by importing high quality products from his country. Turning to the high quality rice produced in Venezuela, the minister said that as an importer of rice, Iran can use such a potential to expand economic cooperation with his country. Khan noted that his country is a producer of rice, coffee, corn, sugar, and various tropical fruits. Underlining the need to broaden tripartite cooperation among Iran, Venezuela, and Cuba, he said that establishment of cement factory by the three states is the first step to this end. The minister said that Iran-Venezuela-Cuba tripartite cooperation should expand to include Bolivia, Ecuador, and Nicaragua.
                  Turning to the high quality rice produced in Venezuela, the minister said that as an importer of rice, Iran can use such a potential to expand economic cooperation with his country. Khan noted that his country is a producer of rice, coffee, corn, sugar, and various tropical fruits. Underlining the need to broaden tripartite cooperation among Iran, Venezuela, and Cuba, he said that establishment of cement factory by the three states is the first step to this end. The minister said that Iran-Venezuela-Cuba tripartite cooperation should expand to include Bolivia, Ecuador, and Nicaragua.
                  Khan noted that his country is a producer of rice, coffee, corn, sugar, and various tropical fruits. Underlining the need to broaden tripartite cooperation among Iran, Venezuela, and Cuba, he said that establishment of cement factory by the three states is the first step to this end. The minister said that Iran-Venezuela-Cuba tripartite cooperation should expand to include Bolivia, Ecuador, and Nicaragua.
                  Underlining the need to broaden tripartite cooperation among Iran, Venezuela, and Cuba, he said that establishment of cement factory by the three states is the first step to this end. The minister said that Iran-Venezuela-Cuba tripartite cooperation should expand to include Bolivia, Ecuador, and Nicaragua.
                  The minister said that Iran-Venezuela-Cuba tripartite cooperation should expand to include Bolivia, Ecuador, and Nicaragua.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.