Director of the Kish Free Trade Zone Hossein Qassemi said some 26 international and domestic air industries enterprises will attend the five-day show which is to begin on October 30. He mentioned that the show will be held in a closed space of over 7,000 square meters, and an open space of 75,000 square meters. He said there will be some 11 foreign companies participating in the show from France, Russia, Ukraine, Germany, Britain, the Czech Republic, The Netherlands, Italy, Pakistan, Slovakia and Switzerland. Qassemi added that companies will showcase their latest achievements in such fields as building and repairing airplanes and helicopters, and manufacturing spare parts. He cited that Iran's Air Show will aim at presenting the capabilities of the world's research and industrial institutions in the aviation industry, and to provide an easy access to the latest international developments and breakthroughs in that area. The air show would be held once every two years in Kish island, stressing that this would make Kish a world center for trade in the aviation industry, Qassemi further said. He underlined that holding the air show at a time of volatility in the region represents the stability and security prevailing in the Islamic Republic. The participation of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization to present its capabilities in maintaining the aviation standards and flight security is among the prominent features of the air show, IRNA reported Qassemi as saying. He added that the Aerospace Industries Organization, the army's Chief of Staff, the Air Force and the Air Force of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) are the main domestic participants in the show.
                  He mentioned that the show will be held in a closed space of over 7,000 square meters, and an open space of 75,000 square meters. He said there will be some 11 foreign companies participating in the show from France, Russia, Ukraine, Germany, Britain, the Czech Republic, The Netherlands, Italy, Pakistan, Slovakia and Switzerland. Qassemi added that companies will showcase their latest achievements in such fields as building and repairing airplanes and helicopters, and manufacturing spare parts. He cited that Iran's Air Show will aim at presenting the capabilities of the world's research and industrial institutions in the aviation industry, and to provide an easy access to the latest international developments and breakthroughs in that area. The air show would be held once every two years in Kish island, stressing that this would make Kish a world center for trade in the aviation industry, Qassemi further said. He underlined that holding the air show at a time of volatility in the region represents the stability and security prevailing in the Islamic Republic. The participation of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization to present its capabilities in maintaining the aviation standards and flight security is among the prominent features of the air show, IRNA reported Qassemi as saying. He added that the Aerospace Industries Organization, the army's Chief of Staff, the Air Force and the Air Force of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) are the main domestic participants in the show.
                  He said there will be some 11 foreign companies participating in the show from France, Russia, Ukraine, Germany, Britain, the Czech Republic, The Netherlands, Italy, Pakistan, Slovakia and Switzerland. Qassemi added that companies will showcase their latest achievements in such fields as building and repairing airplanes and helicopters, and manufacturing spare parts. He cited that Iran's Air Show will aim at presenting the capabilities of the world's research and industrial institutions in the aviation industry, and to provide an easy access to the latest international developments and breakthroughs in that area. The air show would be held once every two years in Kish island, stressing that this would make Kish a world center for trade in the aviation industry, Qassemi further said. He underlined that holding the air show at a time of volatility in the region represents the stability and security prevailing in the Islamic Republic. The participation of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization to present its capabilities in maintaining the aviation standards and flight security is among the prominent features of the air show, IRNA reported Qassemi as saying. He added that the Aerospace Industries Organization, the army's Chief of Staff, the Air Force and the Air Force of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) are the main domestic participants in the show.
                  Qassemi added that companies will showcase their latest achievements in such fields as building and repairing airplanes and helicopters, and manufacturing spare parts. He cited that Iran's Air Show will aim at presenting the capabilities of the world's research and industrial institutions in the aviation industry, and to provide an easy access to the latest international developments and breakthroughs in that area. The air show would be held once every two years in Kish island, stressing that this would make Kish a world center for trade in the aviation industry, Qassemi further said. He underlined that holding the air show at a time of volatility in the region represents the stability and security prevailing in the Islamic Republic. The participation of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization to present its capabilities in maintaining the aviation standards and flight security is among the prominent features of the air show, IRNA reported Qassemi as saying. He added that the Aerospace Industries Organization, the army's Chief of Staff, the Air Force and the Air Force of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) are the main domestic participants in the show.
                  He cited that Iran's Air Show will aim at presenting the capabilities of the world's research and industrial institutions in the aviation industry, and to provide an easy access to the latest international developments and breakthroughs in that area. The air show would be held once every two years in Kish island, stressing that this would make Kish a world center for trade in the aviation industry, Qassemi further said. He underlined that holding the air show at a time of volatility in the region represents the stability and security prevailing in the Islamic Republic. The participation of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization to present its capabilities in maintaining the aviation standards and flight security is among the prominent features of the air show, IRNA reported Qassemi as saying. He added that the Aerospace Industries Organization, the army's Chief of Staff, the Air Force and the Air Force of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) are the main domestic participants in the show.
                  The air show would be held once every two years in Kish island, stressing that this would make Kish a world center for trade in the aviation industry, Qassemi further said. He underlined that holding the air show at a time of volatility in the region represents the stability and security prevailing in the Islamic Republic. The participation of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization to present its capabilities in maintaining the aviation standards and flight security is among the prominent features of the air show, IRNA reported Qassemi as saying. He added that the Aerospace Industries Organization, the army's Chief of Staff, the Air Force and the Air Force of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) are the main domestic participants in the show.
                  He underlined that holding the air show at a time of volatility in the region represents the stability and security prevailing in the Islamic Republic. The participation of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization to present its capabilities in maintaining the aviation standards and flight security is among the prominent features of the air show, IRNA reported Qassemi as saying. He added that the Aerospace Industries Organization, the army's Chief of Staff, the Air Force and the Air Force of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) are the main domestic participants in the show.
                  The participation of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization to present its capabilities in maintaining the aviation standards and flight security is among the prominent features of the air show, IRNA reported Qassemi as saying. He added that the Aerospace Industries Organization, the army's Chief of Staff, the Air Force and the Air Force of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) are the main domestic participants in the show.
                  He added that the Aerospace Industries Organization, the army's Chief of Staff, the Air Force and the Air Force of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) are the main domestic participants in the show.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.