Fifty pieces of cloth have been discovered at the ancient site over the past few years. The director of the team of archaeologists working at the Burnt City, Mansur Sajjadi, said that after excavating a workshop which was discovered during the ninth stage of excavations, several rooms which were full of textiles, earthenware, and seals were found. The architecture indicates that the rooms were used as a warehouse in ancient times, he stated. Many textiles have been found at the Burnt City but the exact purpose of these rooms has not been determined, he noted. Located 57 kilometers from the city of Zabol in Iran’s Sistan-Baluchestan Province, the Burnt City was one of the world’s largest cities at the dawn of the urban era. According to Sajjadi, the discovered textiles can shed light on changes in the process of weaving and knitting in the third millennium BC. The archaeological evidence proves that the rooms were used after the second stage of inhabitation, he said, adding that the rooms were later converted into workshops. The Burnt City, which covers an area of 150 hectares, was built circa 3200 BC and destroyed some time around 2100 BC. The city had four stages of civilization and was burnt down three times. Since it was not rebuilt after the last time it was burnt down, it was named the Burnt City.
                  The director of the team of archaeologists working at the Burnt City, Mansur Sajjadi, said that after excavating a workshop which was discovered during the ninth stage of excavations, several rooms which were full of textiles, earthenware, and seals were found. The architecture indicates that the rooms were used as a warehouse in ancient times, he stated. Many textiles have been found at the Burnt City but the exact purpose of these rooms has not been determined, he noted. Located 57 kilometers from the city of Zabol in Iran’s Sistan-Baluchestan Province, the Burnt City was one of the world’s largest cities at the dawn of the urban era. According to Sajjadi, the discovered textiles can shed light on changes in the process of weaving and knitting in the third millennium BC. The archaeological evidence proves that the rooms were used after the second stage of inhabitation, he said, adding that the rooms were later converted into workshops. The Burnt City, which covers an area of 150 hectares, was built circa 3200 BC and destroyed some time around 2100 BC. The city had four stages of civilization and was burnt down three times. Since it was not rebuilt after the last time it was burnt down, it was named the Burnt City.
                  The architecture indicates that the rooms were used as a warehouse in ancient times, he stated. Many textiles have been found at the Burnt City but the exact purpose of these rooms has not been determined, he noted. Located 57 kilometers from the city of Zabol in Iran’s Sistan-Baluchestan Province, the Burnt City was one of the world’s largest cities at the dawn of the urban era. According to Sajjadi, the discovered textiles can shed light on changes in the process of weaving and knitting in the third millennium BC. The archaeological evidence proves that the rooms were used after the second stage of inhabitation, he said, adding that the rooms were later converted into workshops. The Burnt City, which covers an area of 150 hectares, was built circa 3200 BC and destroyed some time around 2100 BC. The city had four stages of civilization and was burnt down three times. Since it was not rebuilt after the last time it was burnt down, it was named the Burnt City.
                  Many textiles have been found at the Burnt City but the exact purpose of these rooms has not been determined, he noted. Located 57 kilometers from the city of Zabol in Iran’s Sistan-Baluchestan Province, the Burnt City was one of the world’s largest cities at the dawn of the urban era. According to Sajjadi, the discovered textiles can shed light on changes in the process of weaving and knitting in the third millennium BC. The archaeological evidence proves that the rooms were used after the second stage of inhabitation, he said, adding that the rooms were later converted into workshops. The Burnt City, which covers an area of 150 hectares, was built circa 3200 BC and destroyed some time around 2100 BC. The city had four stages of civilization and was burnt down three times. Since it was not rebuilt after the last time it was burnt down, it was named the Burnt City.
                  Located 57 kilometers from the city of Zabol in Iran’s Sistan-Baluchestan Province, the Burnt City was one of the world’s largest cities at the dawn of the urban era. According to Sajjadi, the discovered textiles can shed light on changes in the process of weaving and knitting in the third millennium BC. The archaeological evidence proves that the rooms were used after the second stage of inhabitation, he said, adding that the rooms were later converted into workshops. The Burnt City, which covers an area of 150 hectares, was built circa 3200 BC and destroyed some time around 2100 BC. The city had four stages of civilization and was burnt down three times. Since it was not rebuilt after the last time it was burnt down, it was named the Burnt City.
                  According to Sajjadi, the discovered textiles can shed light on changes in the process of weaving and knitting in the third millennium BC. The archaeological evidence proves that the rooms were used after the second stage of inhabitation, he said, adding that the rooms were later converted into workshops. The Burnt City, which covers an area of 150 hectares, was built circa 3200 BC and destroyed some time around 2100 BC. The city had four stages of civilization and was burnt down three times. Since it was not rebuilt after the last time it was burnt down, it was named the Burnt City.
                  The archaeological evidence proves that the rooms were used after the second stage of inhabitation, he said, adding that the rooms were later converted into workshops. The Burnt City, which covers an area of 150 hectares, was built circa 3200 BC and destroyed some time around 2100 BC. The city had four stages of civilization and was burnt down three times. Since it was not rebuilt after the last time it was burnt down, it was named the Burnt City.
                  The Burnt City, which covers an area of 150 hectares, was built circa 3200 BC and destroyed some time around 2100 BC. The city had four stages of civilization and was burnt down three times. Since it was not rebuilt after the last time it was burnt down, it was named the Burnt City.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.