TEHRAN- ​​​​​​​Sayyad Hassan Nasrallah, the Secretary-General of Lebanon’s Hezbollah, has said that "all Israeli governments are criminals, regardless of the elections winner” in the apartheid terrorist regime, stressing whoever assumes responsibility in the next cabinet will speed up the end of the occupation of Palestine. Touching on the results of the Knesset results, Sayyed Nasrallah, in a speech delivered on the occasion of Martyrs Day on Friday, said "the results of the recent Israeli elections do not concern us, because all the Israeli parties are similar to each other in their crimes." He pointed out that "the results of the Israeli elections may have some repercussions in Palestine, because power will be taken over by fools.” However, he said, the “fools do not frighten us." Sayyed Nasrallah expressed his belief that "the Israeli elections will increase sharp divisions and affect the future of this entity through the choices” made. "The fools who assume responsibilities in the next enemy government, will lead the entity to the end, and the confrontation inside occupied Palestine will accelerate the end of this entity," he highlighted. "Iran decisively defeated the American-Israeli-Western conspiracy."The Likud party coalition, led by the war criminal Benjamin Netanyahu together with far-right extremist Zionist allies, topped the results of the Knesset elections, by obtaining 64 seats, while the coalition of the outgoing cabinet, headed by Yair Lapid, won 51 seats. Sayyed Nasrallah also said "Lebanon is protected by God and the equation of force is the army, the people and the resistance, and the matter does not change for us after the Israeli elections, because our strength is known to all." Regarding the demarcation of the Lebanese maritime borders, a deal that was struck indirectly between Lebanon and the Zionist entity, through American mediation, Sayyad Nasrallah warned "whoever is betting on an American guarantee should first go and ask the Palestinians who betted on the American guarantees in their agreements, but for us the result that led to the agreement will remain intact." "American guarantees cannot be trusted to preserve the maritime border delimitation agreement. Only the element of the resistance force can be relied upon to maintain and guarantee the maritime border delimitation agreement," he insisted. "Washington did not complete the maritime border demarcation agreement for the sake of Lebanon, but rather to spare the region from war, because its priorities are different," the Hezbollah leader pointed out, adding, "Lebanon obtained the demands of the Lebanese state in the maritime border demarcation agreement with its strength to capture this historical moment." Israel made attempts to drill oil and gas in waters that legally belong to the Palestinians. However, the Israeli drilling was put on hold after Hezbollah vowed to go to war before an agreement is reached on the demarcation between the two sides. Touching on the U.S. midterms, Sayyed Nasrallah pointed out that "the results of the U.S. elections do not change anything because the United States, with its Republicans and Democrats, is one-sided." In response to the statements of a U.S. official who spoke of “scenarios that could lead to salvation [of Lebanon] from Hezbollah,” describing the movement that has defeated Israel and liberated Lebanon from Israel occupation as “a plague or a curse,” Nasrallah stressed that “Hezbollah is the one who removed the curse of the United States from Lebanon and killed this plague.” He added, "the United States is the basis of the curse, the plague and the epidemic, and it is the one that infiltrates often, commits and backs massacres after our peoples faced its curse and its plague." Both American parties, he noted, have launched and backed wars and conflicts.  The Hezbollah chief also said "the United States was the one who brought the Takfiri terrorist plague to Lebanon, and Hezbollah confronted and removed it," adding that "it was the United States that wanted to stir chaos in Lebanon in 2019 by supporting the demonstrations after its plans for the country were foiled." Lebanon faced a period of unrest in October 2019 when people rioted on the streets in a suspicious manner. The havoc also mysteriously coincided with similar scenes in Iraq during the same month. Both countries are allies of Iran. Sayyed Nasrallah continued "it was the United States that sponsored the chaos of October 2019 and planted its curse” but Hezbollah confronted it. "The American blockade is still continuing on Lebanon by preventing any investments or economic aid to the country, and this in itself is a curse and a plague." The Lebanese resistance leader said "the United States prevents any country from helping Lebanon" and "if a country wants to help Lebanon and break the American blockade, the United States prevents the Lebanese government from accepting that assistance." He added, "Will Lebanon dare to accept the new Russian aid, or will it succumb to the threats of the United States?" Also, he said, “Iran agreed to the request of a Lebanese delegation that visited there to help Lebanon, but the American curse prevented the aid." The Hezbollah chief also said "whoever prevents Egyptian gas and Jordanian electricity from Lebanon is the one who approves Caesar's law, that is, the United States," noting that "the Americans who failed to bring down Syria through terrorists and the financing and backing of Takfiri terrorists, now want to bring it down through hunger and cold." Sayyed Nasrallah called on leading Lebanese officials "not to succumb to the plague and epidemic of the United States, which only want to protect Israel." "The enemy is trying, through advanced technology, to corrupt our generations and change their beliefs, and this represents a huge danger," he noted, stressing that the path of “our martyrs” throughout successive generations has solidified the enemy's failure to achieve its goals. The resistance leader went on to say that the equation of the army, the people and the resistance will protect Lebanon, and that the guarantee for the continuation of the maritime demarcation agreement is the strength of Lebanon and the elements of power it possesses. He blamed the successive U.S. governments for the survival of Israel in West Asia and for all its attacks on the Palestinians, stressing that all of Israel's crimes in Lebanon from 1982 until the year 2000 were nurtured by the U.S. “They were the curse and the plague that came to our country.” It was the resistance movements, including Hezbollah, that removed the curse and expelled the American plague from Lebanon, he said, reiterating that the destruction of the region with wars from Afghanistan to Iraq and the July 2006 war is the work of the American administrations and the American “epidemic”. He also explained that "two years ago we agreed with the brothers in Iran to sell oil derivatives to Lebanon in Lebanese pounds to save billions of dollars on the Lebanese treasury, but the Americans prevented the government from accepting that." Regarding the recent foreign-sponsored riots in Iran, Sayyed Nasrallah affirmed that Iran has once again triumphed over the American and Israeli sedition and conspiracy plots, noting that this is the nature of the Americans who are still relying on the option of chaos and civil war in Lebanon, thinking that it will end the resistance in the country. He also highlighted that the Lebanese army rejects the idea of confrontation with Hezbollah which the American administration seeks to achieve, stressing the right for an environment of resistance in the face of Israeli threats. Sayyed Nasrallah also pointed out that a large part of the Lebanese people wanted to be reassured of the resistance by the next President. "We want a President of the Republic who is strong, not afraid, not sold or bought. What we want is a president who does not stab the resistance in the back only.” Lebanon currently has a power vacuum as different political factions are in talks to agree on a President, Parliament speaker and Prime Minister. Each post must go to a different sect, and some analysts say this system, created by foreign powers, is the cause of repeated political stalemates in the country. Michel Aoun's term as president ended on October 31.    All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.