TEHRAN- The U.S. House of Representatives has backed legislation that paves the way for the military budget to hit a record $858 billion next year. The massive amount of funds even surpasses the amount proposed by President Joe Biden by $45 billion.  The fiscal 2023 National Defense Authorization Act authorizes $858 billion in military spending and includes funding for further purchases of weapons, warships, and warplanes. The measure was passed following months of negotiations between Republicans and Democrats in both the Senate and the House. The bill paves the way for more funds to develop new weapons and purchase systems including Lockheed Martin Corp's F-35 fighter jets and ships made by General Dynamics. The massive military policy bill also includes authorization of up to $10 billion in military assistance and fast-tracked weapons procurement for Taiwan. This is likely to be met with anger from Beijing which views Taiwan as an integral part of China. Beijing is growing increasingly frustrated with Washington’s disregard towards Chinese territory, accusing the U.S. of interference in its domestic affairs. Beijing also accuses Washington of using Taiwan to contain China’s growing economic and military strength. This is despite the fact that experts say China has no ambitions to become “the number one superpower in the world” as the U.S. is attempting to do so. Washington appears eager to raise tensions in East Asia, with the Pentagon’s focus on China. In the summer, Washington sharply raised tensions after former U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi paid a highly controversial visit to Taiwan. Despite America’s attempts to contain another sovereign country’s capabilities, China sent a new remote-sensing satellite into space from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center in north China's Shanxi Province at 2:31 a.m. Friday (Beijing Time). The satellite, Gaofen-5 01A, was launched aboard a Long March-2D rocket and entered its planned orbit successfully. It is a hyperspectral satellite that will be used for remote sensing and applications in diverse fields, such as pollution reduction, environmental monitoring, natural resource surveys, and climate change studies. The satellite will help improve the country's hyperspectral observation capacity in areas such as environmental protection, land, weather, agriculture, and disaster alleviation. The launch was the 453rd flight mission of the Long March carrier rocket series. The House passed the version of the National Defense Authorization Act, or NDAA, an annual must-pass bill, setting policy for the Pentagon, by 350-80, far exceeding the two-thirds majority required to pass the legislation. The U.S. security budget legislation will now head to the Senate for a vote on Wednesday and will also need a rubber stamp from President Biden. Both measures are expected to pass with ease. The bill also provides Ukraine with at least $800 million in additional military assistance next year and includes a range of provisions to strengthen Taiwan’s military. This comes as the U.S. is preparing to send Ukraine a further $275 million military aid package offering new capabilities to defeat drones and strengthen air defenses, according to a document seen by officials familiar with the package. Details of the anti-drone and air defense equipment included have not been determined. The Pentagon is also expected to include rockets for High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS) launchers made by Lockheed Martin Corp, 155mm ammunition, Humvee military vehicles, and generators, according to the people and the document. A National Security Council spokesperson declined to comment on the aid package. The contents and size of aid packages can shift until they are signed by the president. The $275 million will be covered by the Presidential Drawdown Authority (PDA) which allows the United States to transfer defense articles and services from stocks quickly without congressional approval in response to an emergency. The United States has sent sophisticated anti-aircraft NASAMS systems to Ukraine which have been running for a few weeks. Washington previously announced it was also sending HAWK interceptor missiles as well as The United States is preparing to send Ukraine a $275 million military aid package offering new capabilities to defeat drones and strengthen air defenses, according to people familiar with the package. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment, and a National Security Council spokesperson declined to comment on the aid package. The contents and size of aid packages can shift until they are signed by the president. Washington previously announced it was sending four Avenger short-range air defense systems that use Stinger missiles, made by Raytheon Technologies Corp, and HAWK interceptor missiles. U.S. allies have also been sending air defense systems. Since the start of the Ukraine war on February 24, which Moscow described as a "special military operation". Since then, the U.S. has sent almost $20 billion worth of military assistance to Kyiv. Washington’s allies such as Britain, France, and Canada have also been sending aid packages for Ukraine. Russia, however, has time and again warned that the continued supply of Western weapons and military equipment to Kyiv will only prolong the war. The Kremlin recently said Moscow is intensifying its operations in Ukraine in an attempt to force Kyiv to the negotiating table and end the conflict. President Vladimir Putin came in response to Kyiv’s strikes on Russia’s power lines and Ukraine’s damage to the Crimean bridge. Vladimir Putin has also accused Kyiv of not supplying water to the Russian-controlled Donetsk region, saying such acts amount to genocide. According to Putin, these Ukrainian acts amount to genocide. He also said that the international uproar over the strikes would not hinder Russia's combat missions in Ukraine. Russian authorities accuse Ukrainian forces of heavily shelling the eastern Donetsk region. The war in Ukraine has entered its tenth month with both sides accusing the other of targeting civilian centers. Critics argue the U.S. is seeking a stalemate in the country to contain Russia by sending more advanced weapons to Kyiv to prolong the war.  At the same time, reports have emerged that Washington is sending out-of-date weapons to Kyiv when Ukrainian forces are advancing.      All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.