The growing inclination of the world’s Muslims toward the Islamic state of Iran originates from the identity of the Islamic Revolution and the thoughts of the late Imam Khomeini, the Leader noted. He went on to say that the transparent stances of President Mahmud Ahmadinejad toward the important issues of the Islamic world and the United States were also effective in increasing the inclination of Muslim nations toward the Islamic state of Iran. Iranian officials can even more effectively explain the political depth of the Islamic state by interacting with Muslim nations, he added. The Supreme Leader also expressed appreciation for the services rendered by his representative for hajj affairs, Mohammad Mohammadi Reyshahri, the director of the Hajj and Pilgrimage Organization, Ahmad Zarhani, and other Iranian officials responsible for hajj affairs. He stated that the main aim of hajj is to cause an emotional and psychological transformation in human beings, adding that by providing the people the necessities of this spiritual trip, the occasion of hajj can have the best spiritual and cultural influence on pilgrims. Hojatoleslam Reyshahri briefed the Supreme Leader about the hajj rituals carried out in the holy city of Mecca and said that the ritual of 'disavowal of the infidels' was held along with seven conferences, which were welcomed by Muslims taking part in the pilgrimage.
                  He went on to say that the transparent stances of President Mahmud Ahmadinejad toward the important issues of the Islamic world and the United States were also effective in increasing the inclination of Muslim nations toward the Islamic state of Iran. Iranian officials can even more effectively explain the political depth of the Islamic state by interacting with Muslim nations, he added. The Supreme Leader also expressed appreciation for the services rendered by his representative for hajj affairs, Mohammad Mohammadi Reyshahri, the director of the Hajj and Pilgrimage Organization, Ahmad Zarhani, and other Iranian officials responsible for hajj affairs. He stated that the main aim of hajj is to cause an emotional and psychological transformation in human beings, adding that by providing the people the necessities of this spiritual trip, the occasion of hajj can have the best spiritual and cultural influence on pilgrims. Hojatoleslam Reyshahri briefed the Supreme Leader about the hajj rituals carried out in the holy city of Mecca and said that the ritual of 'disavowal of the infidels' was held along with seven conferences, which were welcomed by Muslims taking part in the pilgrimage.
                  Iranian officials can even more effectively explain the political depth of the Islamic state by interacting with Muslim nations, he added. The Supreme Leader also expressed appreciation for the services rendered by his representative for hajj affairs, Mohammad Mohammadi Reyshahri, the director of the Hajj and Pilgrimage Organization, Ahmad Zarhani, and other Iranian officials responsible for hajj affairs. He stated that the main aim of hajj is to cause an emotional and psychological transformation in human beings, adding that by providing the people the necessities of this spiritual trip, the occasion of hajj can have the best spiritual and cultural influence on pilgrims. Hojatoleslam Reyshahri briefed the Supreme Leader about the hajj rituals carried out in the holy city of Mecca and said that the ritual of 'disavowal of the infidels' was held along with seven conferences, which were welcomed by Muslims taking part in the pilgrimage.
                  The Supreme Leader also expressed appreciation for the services rendered by his representative for hajj affairs, Mohammad Mohammadi Reyshahri, the director of the Hajj and Pilgrimage Organization, Ahmad Zarhani, and other Iranian officials responsible for hajj affairs. He stated that the main aim of hajj is to cause an emotional and psychological transformation in human beings, adding that by providing the people the necessities of this spiritual trip, the occasion of hajj can have the best spiritual and cultural influence on pilgrims. Hojatoleslam Reyshahri briefed the Supreme Leader about the hajj rituals carried out in the holy city of Mecca and said that the ritual of 'disavowal of the infidels' was held along with seven conferences, which were welcomed by Muslims taking part in the pilgrimage.
                  He stated that the main aim of hajj is to cause an emotional and psychological transformation in human beings, adding that by providing the people the necessities of this spiritual trip, the occasion of hajj can have the best spiritual and cultural influence on pilgrims. Hojatoleslam Reyshahri briefed the Supreme Leader about the hajj rituals carried out in the holy city of Mecca and said that the ritual of 'disavowal of the infidels' was held along with seven conferences, which were welcomed by Muslims taking part in the pilgrimage.
                  Hojatoleslam Reyshahri briefed the Supreme Leader about the hajj rituals carried out in the holy city of Mecca and said that the ritual of 'disavowal of the infidels' was held along with seven conferences, which were welcomed by Muslims taking part in the pilgrimage.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.