TEHRAN- Iran's ambassador and permanent representative to the United Nations has underscored that the status quo in Afghanistan is the outcome of foreign military intervention in the country with the ostensible goals of battling terrorism and establishing democracy to the war-ravaged nation. The statement was given by Amir Saeed Iravani during a UN General Assembly meeting on Thursday about violence and violation of human rights in Afghanistan. The text of the ambassador’s speech is as follows: Over the past four decades, the General Assembly has addressed the situation in Afghanistan, focusing on peace, stability, good governance, human rights, and development. This year, the General Assembly will consider the draft resolution considering the Situation in Afghanistan for the first time since the irresponsible withdrawal of foreign forces and the Taliban's takeover and debate comes at a critical time in the ongoing situation in Afghanistan which is now dealing with a number of interconnected and overlapping crises. The humanitarian situation is particularly dire. Millions of people are now living in poverty. Food insecurity is exacerbating and human rights continue to be violated particularly against women and girls, who are still denied access to education. Meanwhile, the de-facto authorities have yet to fulfill their international obligations. The current situation in Afghanistan serves as a reminder that military intervention in other countries under the pretext of combating terrorism while claiming to bring democracy, peace, and prosperity not only degrades those common values but also harms those States and their people. This Catastrophic situation entails responsibility and obligations for those foreign forces that illegally invaded and occupied Afghanistan under the guise of fighting terrorism and left nothing but devastation in their wake. Today my delegation will vote in favor of the draft resolution L.11 to send a strong message that all members will stand firmly in unity with the people of Afghanistan in our efforts to build a peaceful, prosperous, and self-resilient country. That was the overarching principle guiding our approach to the negotiations. “Food insecurity is exacerbating and human rights continue to be violated particularly against women, who are still denied access to education.” The future of Afghanistan principally contingents on the restoration of the country's Constitution and a strong commitment to it. An inclusive government based on an established constitution is the only way to ensure and protect the rights of all Afghan people, including women and girls, as well as linguistic, racial, and religious minorities. In a multi-ethnic and diverse society such as that of Afghanistan, no single group, party, or faction, can claim to hold power by itself alone. The Taliban must be mindful of the international community's repeated calls for the formation of such a government that accurately reflects Afghanistan's multi- ethnic society. The formation of an inclusive government based on an established constitution is a prerequisite and critical component for international recognition. The international community must sustain its support to Afghanistan, particularly in terms of the provision of humanitarian and development assistance that has been critical in responding to the immediate needs of the Afghan people, maintaining basic services, and reviving the economy. In this regard, restoring banking and financial systems as well as enabling access to frozen assets belonging to the Afghan and Afghanistan’s Central Bank for the benefit of the Afghan people is crucial and is a sustain and long-term solution in addressing the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. We emphasize that those assets must enjoy immunity and be safeguarded from domestic judicial processes and the exercise of extraterritorial jurisdictions. It is also regrettable that — again due to the objection of some Western countries — the draft resolution has failed to refer to the role of foreign military intervention as well as the irresponsible withdrawal of foreign forces from Afghanistan in emerging such a dire situation in Afghanistan. Moreover, we strongly emphasize the necessity of investigating allegations of war crimes committed by foreign forces, including those previously conducted and now “deprioritized” due to bias and political pressure. Afghanistan’s security situation remains a source of concern, since attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, including educational centers and diplomatic premises, are on the rise. We strongly condemn all such attacks, most of which are perpetrated by terrorist groups, particularly Daesh, elements of which are still being transferred from Syria and Iraq to Afghanistan. Terrorism has had a devastating impact on Afghanistan and its neighboring countries. We share the strong determination of the international community not to allow Afghanistan’s territory to be a safe haven for Al-Qaida, Daesh, or other international terrorist groups and their affiliates or used by them to threaten or attack any country. We highlight the international community's ongoing demand that the Taliban must commit to fighting terrorism. Equally critical, addressing the serious threat caused by illicit opium cultivation as well as drug production and trafficking, must be a priority. Iran is directly affected by this menace and pays a high price for it. Over the past 40 years, Iran has played an active role in combating drug trafficking in the region, in which, nearly 4,000 members of Iran’s law enforcement forces have been martyred and over 12,000 others have been injured. We stress the importance of the narcotics ban on the cultivation, production, trafficking, and consumption of illicit drugs and express our concern regarding the fact that the amount of illicit opium cultivation, as well as drug production, has been raising at alarming levels, since the Taliban takeover of the country. Iran also highlights the importance of a comprehensive approach in addressing the drug problem of Afghanistan, which includes agricultural and rural development programs for the creation of improved alternative, licit livelihoods for farmers. We believe that this important annual resolution shall also be improved by highlighting the vital role of regional organizations in promoting the long-term stability of Afghanistan. We would like to highlight the Foreign Ministers’ Meetings Among the Neighboring Countries of Afghanistan, which enjoy a large area of expertise and has proved its great value on critical issues for Afghanistan. Regional cooperation and regional connectivity are key and effective means for us in promoting and bringing about peace, security, stability, and economic development in Afghanistan and the region. The Islamic Republic of Iran in close coordination with Afghanistan’s neighbors and other relevant parties, and while fully respecting Afghanistan's territorial integrity, unity, and political independence, will continue its endeavors to assist the people of Afghanistan in restoring peace and stability and paving the way towards well-being and prosperity of all Afghans.     All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.