Ron Redmond, UNHCR official has stated that the agency is becoming increasingly concerned about some outbursts of violence against Afghans living in Iran. The UNHCR spokesman was referring to isolated clashes which took place in an overpopulated housing state in southern Tehran last Tuesday. Redmond, the high commissioner, painting a stark picture of the situation, in an exaggerated move has written to the Iranian interior minister raising his concern about the sporadic incidents. The concern of the UNHCR over the plight of refugees is admirable and we too believe that such incidents, isolated as they are, could be instrumental in creating bad feelings and tension amongst the refugee community in Iran. It is hoped however that the concern of the UNHCR is not limited only to random instances in Iran. It is well known to the UNHCR and in particular to its Tehran office that the Islamic Republic of Iran has for the past two decades welcomed and sheltered millions of Afghan refugees. Even the commissioner himself has said "Iran has been among the world's most generous hosts to refugees". So what prompts such statements and declaration of concern over incidents that although unfortunate and regrettable are by no means a concerted effort against the refugees who are treated more like guests of the country? We shall have more to say on this in due course.
                  The UNHCR spokesman was referring to isolated clashes which took place in an overpopulated housing state in southern Tehran last Tuesday. Redmond, the high commissioner, painting a stark picture of the situation, in an exaggerated move has written to the Iranian interior minister raising his concern about the sporadic incidents. The concern of the UNHCR over the plight of refugees is admirable and we too believe that such incidents, isolated as they are, could be instrumental in creating bad feelings and tension amongst the refugee community in Iran. It is hoped however that the concern of the UNHCR is not limited only to random instances in Iran. It is well known to the UNHCR and in particular to its Tehran office that the Islamic Republic of Iran has for the past two decades welcomed and sheltered millions of Afghan refugees. Even the commissioner himself has said "Iran has been among the world's most generous hosts to refugees". So what prompts such statements and declaration of concern over incidents that although unfortunate and regrettable are by no means a concerted effort against the refugees who are treated more like guests of the country? We shall have more to say on this in due course.
                  Redmond, the high commissioner, painting a stark picture of the situation, in an exaggerated move has written to the Iranian interior minister raising his concern about the sporadic incidents. The concern of the UNHCR over the plight of refugees is admirable and we too believe that such incidents, isolated as they are, could be instrumental in creating bad feelings and tension amongst the refugee community in Iran. It is hoped however that the concern of the UNHCR is not limited only to random instances in Iran. It is well known to the UNHCR and in particular to its Tehran office that the Islamic Republic of Iran has for the past two decades welcomed and sheltered millions of Afghan refugees. Even the commissioner himself has said "Iran has been among the world's most generous hosts to refugees". So what prompts such statements and declaration of concern over incidents that although unfortunate and regrettable are by no means a concerted effort against the refugees who are treated more like guests of the country? We shall have more to say on this in due course.
                  The concern of the UNHCR over the plight of refugees is admirable and we too believe that such incidents, isolated as they are, could be instrumental in creating bad feelings and tension amongst the refugee community in Iran. It is hoped however that the concern of the UNHCR is not limited only to random instances in Iran. It is well known to the UNHCR and in particular to its Tehran office that the Islamic Republic of Iran has for the past two decades welcomed and sheltered millions of Afghan refugees. Even the commissioner himself has said "Iran has been among the world's most generous hosts to refugees". So what prompts such statements and declaration of concern over incidents that although unfortunate and regrettable are by no means a concerted effort against the refugees who are treated more like guests of the country? We shall have more to say on this in due course.
                  It is well known to the UNHCR and in particular to its Tehran office that the Islamic Republic of Iran has for the past two decades welcomed and sheltered millions of Afghan refugees. Even the commissioner himself has said "Iran has been among the world's most generous hosts to refugees". So what prompts such statements and declaration of concern over incidents that although unfortunate and regrettable are by no means a concerted effort against the refugees who are treated more like guests of the country? We shall have more to say on this in due course.
                  So what prompts such statements and declaration of concern over incidents that although unfortunate and regrettable are by no means a concerted effort against the refugees who are treated more like guests of the country? We shall have more to say on this in due course.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.