Al-Ghadir is the place where Prophet Mohammad (S) introduced Imam Ali (AS) as his successor upon his return from Hajj pilgrimage to holy Mecca, Saudi Arabia. Shia Muslims throughout the world celebrate anniversary of the auspicious occasion which falls on March 14 this year. The Leader said in his address to thousands of people who had gathered to felicitate the Leader on the occasion that the philosophy of the Prophet's decision to introduce Imam Ali (AS) was to pave the way for continued guidance of human being to build a prosperous and fair human community in the entire globe. Ayatollah Khamenei said that Prophet Mohammad has been appointed by the Almighty God to guide the human being toward virtue and clean life and the Prophet assigned Imam Ali as his successor to indicate permanency of guidance to the human being. The Leader said that the imams of Prophet Mohammad (S) infallible household proceeded with guidance of human community and that with advent of Imam Mahdi (AS), the human being will enjoy a real life, IRNA said. "The human community needs the beneficence of guidance Prophet Mohammad (S) and imams of his infallible Household offered. That's why the Islamic Revolution and the Islamic resurrection have set a unique pattern to the entire human community," the Leader said. "The Iranian nation resorted to Islam and leadership of holy Qoran which is in line with bright direction Al-Ghadir has set. The Islamic movement in Iran helped flourish Islam's influence in the entire world, the Leader said. The Leader said that the Islamic Revolution has followed Prophet Mohammad's guidance so that none of the anti-Iran hostile propaganda campaign would work and God willing, the Islamic Revolution will be successful to prepare the ground for Imam Mahdi's reappearance. Meanwhile, analysts believe that the casualties this year's Fire Festival's celebrations were less than the previous years because of its coincidence with the Ghadir Feast. Since the officials, including the Guidance Ministry, celebrated the occasion by fireworks, the substandard crackers did not come to the market as much as they used to in the previous years. They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
  The Leader said in his address to thousands of people who had gathered to felicitate the Leader on the occasion that the philosophy of the Prophet's decision to introduce Imam Ali (AS) was to pave the way for continued guidance of human being to build a prosperous and fair human community in the entire globe. Ayatollah Khamenei said that Prophet Mohammad has been appointed by the Almighty God to guide the human being toward virtue and clean life and the Prophet assigned Imam Ali as his successor to indicate permanency of guidance to the human being. The Leader said that the imams of Prophet Mohammad (S) infallible household proceeded with guidance of human community and that with advent of Imam Mahdi (AS), the human being will enjoy a real life, IRNA said. "The human community needs the beneficence of guidance Prophet Mohammad (S) and imams of his infallible Household offered. That's why the Islamic Revolution and the Islamic resurrection have set a unique pattern to the entire human community," the Leader said. "The Iranian nation resorted to Islam and leadership of holy Qoran which is in line with bright direction Al-Ghadir has set. The Islamic movement in Iran helped flourish Islam's influence in the entire world, the Leader said. The Leader said that the Islamic Revolution has followed Prophet Mohammad's guidance so that none of the anti-Iran hostile propaganda campaign would work and God willing, the Islamic Revolution will be successful to prepare the ground for Imam Mahdi's reappearance. Meanwhile, analysts believe that the casualties this year's Fire Festival's celebrations were less than the previous years because of its coincidence with the Ghadir Feast. Since the officials, including the Guidance Ministry, celebrated the occasion by fireworks, the substandard crackers did not come to the market as much as they used to in the previous years. They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
  Ayatollah Khamenei said that Prophet Mohammad has been appointed by the Almighty God to guide the human being toward virtue and clean life and the Prophet assigned Imam Ali as his successor to indicate permanency of guidance to the human being. The Leader said that the imams of Prophet Mohammad (S) infallible household proceeded with guidance of human community and that with advent of Imam Mahdi (AS), the human being will enjoy a real life, IRNA said. "The human community needs the beneficence of guidance Prophet Mohammad (S) and imams of his infallible Household offered. That's why the Islamic Revolution and the Islamic resurrection have set a unique pattern to the entire human community," the Leader said. "The Iranian nation resorted to Islam and leadership of holy Qoran which is in line with bright direction Al-Ghadir has set. The Islamic movement in Iran helped flourish Islam's influence in the entire world, the Leader said. The Leader said that the Islamic Revolution has followed Prophet Mohammad's guidance so that none of the anti-Iran hostile propaganda campaign would work and God willing, the Islamic Revolution will be successful to prepare the ground for Imam Mahdi's reappearance. Meanwhile, analysts believe that the casualties this year's Fire Festival's celebrations were less than the previous years because of its coincidence with the Ghadir Feast. Since the officials, including the Guidance Ministry, celebrated the occasion by fireworks, the substandard crackers did not come to the market as much as they used to in the previous years. They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
  The Leader said that the imams of Prophet Mohammad (S) infallible household proceeded with guidance of human community and that with advent of Imam Mahdi (AS), the human being will enjoy a real life, IRNA said. "The human community needs the beneficence of guidance Prophet Mohammad (S) and imams of his infallible Household offered. That's why the Islamic Revolution and the Islamic resurrection have set a unique pattern to the entire human community," the Leader said. "The Iranian nation resorted to Islam and leadership of holy Qoran which is in line with bright direction Al-Ghadir has set. The Islamic movement in Iran helped flourish Islam's influence in the entire world, the Leader said. The Leader said that the Islamic Revolution has followed Prophet Mohammad's guidance so that none of the anti-Iran hostile propaganda campaign would work and God willing, the Islamic Revolution will be successful to prepare the ground for Imam Mahdi's reappearance. Meanwhile, analysts believe that the casualties this year's Fire Festival's celebrations were less than the previous years because of its coincidence with the Ghadir Feast. Since the officials, including the Guidance Ministry, celebrated the occasion by fireworks, the substandard crackers did not come to the market as much as they used to in the previous years. They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
  "The human community needs the beneficence of guidance Prophet Mohammad (S) and imams of his infallible Household offered. That's why the Islamic Revolution and the Islamic resurrection have set a unique pattern to the entire human community," the Leader said. "The Iranian nation resorted to Islam and leadership of holy Qoran which is in line with bright direction Al-Ghadir has set. The Islamic movement in Iran helped flourish Islam's influence in the entire world, the Leader said. The Leader said that the Islamic Revolution has followed Prophet Mohammad's guidance so that none of the anti-Iran hostile propaganda campaign would work and God willing, the Islamic Revolution will be successful to prepare the ground for Imam Mahdi's reappearance. Meanwhile, analysts believe that the casualties this year's Fire Festival's celebrations were less than the previous years because of its coincidence with the Ghadir Feast. Since the officials, including the Guidance Ministry, celebrated the occasion by fireworks, the substandard crackers did not come to the market as much as they used to in the previous years. They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
  "The Iranian nation resorted to Islam and leadership of holy Qoran which is in line with bright direction Al-Ghadir has set. The Islamic movement in Iran helped flourish Islam's influence in the entire world, the Leader said. The Leader said that the Islamic Revolution has followed Prophet Mohammad's guidance so that none of the anti-Iran hostile propaganda campaign would work and God willing, the Islamic Revolution will be successful to prepare the ground for Imam Mahdi's reappearance. Meanwhile, analysts believe that the casualties this year's Fire Festival's celebrations were less than the previous years because of its coincidence with the Ghadir Feast. Since the officials, including the Guidance Ministry, celebrated the occasion by fireworks, the substandard crackers did not come to the market as much as they used to in the previous years. They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
  The Leader said that the Islamic Revolution has followed Prophet Mohammad's guidance so that none of the anti-Iran hostile propaganda campaign would work and God willing, the Islamic Revolution will be successful to prepare the ground for Imam Mahdi's reappearance. Meanwhile, analysts believe that the casualties this year's Fire Festival's celebrations were less than the previous years because of its coincidence with the Ghadir Feast. Since the officials, including the Guidance Ministry, celebrated the occasion by fireworks, the substandard crackers did not come to the market as much as they used to in the previous years. They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
  Meanwhile, analysts believe that the casualties this year's Fire Festival's celebrations were less than the previous years because of its coincidence with the Ghadir Feast. Since the officials, including the Guidance Ministry, celebrated the occasion by fireworks, the substandard crackers did not come to the market as much as they used to in the previous years. They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
  Since the officials, including the Guidance Ministry, celebrated the occasion by fireworks, the substandard crackers did not come to the market as much as they used to in the previous years. They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
  They suggest that other occasions, like the Fire Festival, should be celebrated by the officials in order to reduce the number of casualties who indulge in substandard crackers and firework.
 
 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.