The fact is that the expansion of relations and cooperation between Iran and Russia, as two major powers in the region, has a positive effect on promoting regional progress and development as well as maintaining regional and international peace and stability. Kharrazi's trip to Russia indicated that Tehran and Moscow are determined to boost their historical relations despite pressure from certain countries like the United States. Although Washington has often raised objections to Iran-Russia cooperation in building a nuclear power plant in Bushehr, a top Russian atomic energy executive said Thursday that Russia is holding talks with Iran on construction of a second reactor at the Bushehr nuclear power plant, which is under full supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The revelation points to the fact that Russia is not willing to submit to the U.S. pressure and intends to follow an independent line in relations with Tehran. Furthermore, during his meeting with Kharrazi yesterday, the Russian president pointed to the very important role played by Iran in Central Asia and the Middle East and praised the long-standing traditional ties with Tehran, saying that Moscow and Tehran had a lot to discuss about international affairs. Iran-Russia relations and cooperation have played a key role in maintaining regional security and resolving crises. A positive outcome of this cooperation was seen in the restoration of peace in Tajikistan. Besides, the two countries, as the only signatories to the agreements reached over the legal regime of the Caspian Sea in 1921 and 1940, are currently playing a major part in negotiations about forging the new legal regime of the sea. Above all, both countries have strongly opposed U.S. unilateralism and called for international cooperation under UN auspices in fighting terrorism and other threats to international peace and security. The close cooperation between Tehran and Moscow clearly shows that the 'unfounded charges' leveled by Washington against the Islamic Republic have failed to achieve their desired objectives, as the self-serving motives behind these allegations are quite evident to the vigilant nations of the world.
                  Kharrazi's trip to Russia indicated that Tehran and Moscow are determined to boost their historical relations despite pressure from certain countries like the United States. Although Washington has often raised objections to Iran-Russia cooperation in building a nuclear power plant in Bushehr, a top Russian atomic energy executive said Thursday that Russia is holding talks with Iran on construction of a second reactor at the Bushehr nuclear power plant, which is under full supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The revelation points to the fact that Russia is not willing to submit to the U.S. pressure and intends to follow an independent line in relations with Tehran. Furthermore, during his meeting with Kharrazi yesterday, the Russian president pointed to the very important role played by Iran in Central Asia and the Middle East and praised the long-standing traditional ties with Tehran, saying that Moscow and Tehran had a lot to discuss about international affairs. Iran-Russia relations and cooperation have played a key role in maintaining regional security and resolving crises. A positive outcome of this cooperation was seen in the restoration of peace in Tajikistan. Besides, the two countries, as the only signatories to the agreements reached over the legal regime of the Caspian Sea in 1921 and 1940, are currently playing a major part in negotiations about forging the new legal regime of the sea. Above all, both countries have strongly opposed U.S. unilateralism and called for international cooperation under UN auspices in fighting terrorism and other threats to international peace and security. The close cooperation between Tehran and Moscow clearly shows that the 'unfounded charges' leveled by Washington against the Islamic Republic have failed to achieve their desired objectives, as the self-serving motives behind these allegations are quite evident to the vigilant nations of the world.
                  Furthermore, during his meeting with Kharrazi yesterday, the Russian president pointed to the very important role played by Iran in Central Asia and the Middle East and praised the long-standing traditional ties with Tehran, saying that Moscow and Tehran had a lot to discuss about international affairs. Iran-Russia relations and cooperation have played a key role in maintaining regional security and resolving crises. A positive outcome of this cooperation was seen in the restoration of peace in Tajikistan. Besides, the two countries, as the only signatories to the agreements reached over the legal regime of the Caspian Sea in 1921 and 1940, are currently playing a major part in negotiations about forging the new legal regime of the sea. Above all, both countries have strongly opposed U.S. unilateralism and called for international cooperation under UN auspices in fighting terrorism and other threats to international peace and security. The close cooperation between Tehran and Moscow clearly shows that the 'unfounded charges' leveled by Washington against the Islamic Republic have failed to achieve their desired objectives, as the self-serving motives behind these allegations are quite evident to the vigilant nations of the world.
                  Iran-Russia relations and cooperation have played a key role in maintaining regional security and resolving crises. A positive outcome of this cooperation was seen in the restoration of peace in Tajikistan. Besides, the two countries, as the only signatories to the agreements reached over the legal regime of the Caspian Sea in 1921 and 1940, are currently playing a major part in negotiations about forging the new legal regime of the sea. Above all, both countries have strongly opposed U.S. unilateralism and called for international cooperation under UN auspices in fighting terrorism and other threats to international peace and security. The close cooperation between Tehran and Moscow clearly shows that the 'unfounded charges' leveled by Washington against the Islamic Republic have failed to achieve their desired objectives, as the self-serving motives behind these allegations are quite evident to the vigilant nations of the world.
                  Above all, both countries have strongly opposed U.S. unilateralism and called for international cooperation under UN auspices in fighting terrorism and other threats to international peace and security. The close cooperation between Tehran and Moscow clearly shows that the 'unfounded charges' leveled by Washington against the Islamic Republic have failed to achieve their desired objectives, as the self-serving motives behind these allegations are quite evident to the vigilant nations of the world.
                  The close cooperation between Tehran and Moscow clearly shows that the 'unfounded charges' leveled by Washington against the Islamic Republic have failed to achieve their desired objectives, as the self-serving motives behind these allegations are quite evident to the vigilant nations of the world.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.