TEHRAN – Iran’s High Council for Human Rights released a new report on the death of Mahsa Amini and the ensuing unrest to provide new information on the situation of human rights in the country. The council said the report has been compiled “with the aim of providing information appertaining to the cause of the death of Mahsa Amini and the facts on the ground regarding the exploitation of the issue in question to spark off riots and insecurity in the society and violate people’s right to security.” According to the report, following the transfer of Mahsa Amini to hospital, the Forensic Medicine Organization – on the order of the Tehran Prosecutor – immediately sent a specialized team to handle the case and conduct a detailed examination of her therein. It added, “Once informed of the death, the body of the deceased was transferred to the Dissection Hall of the Tehran Province Diagnostic and Laboratory Centre where physical examination and autopsy were performed thereon. In dealing with the case, all the criteria and indicators for determining the cause of the death, physical examination and internal organs of the body as well as samples taken from the tissues and internal organs thereof were sent to specialized laboratories so that – as soon as the results of the tests were received and taking into account the results of the examinations and the autopsy, the contents of the hospital file and her medical records, as well as the opinions of experts in related fields, all of which were gathered under the supervision of a special medical commission formed in the Forensic Medicine Organization by the order of the Tehran Prosecutor – the real cause of the death would subsequently be unraveled and notified to the judicial authority.” Citing a coroner’s report on the death of Mahsa Amini, the report said that the death was not caused by blows to the head or any vital organs and parts of the body. The report also drew extensively on the coroner’s report, the Supreme Leader’s remarks, the president’s remarks, and an explanatory statement by the Intelligence Ministry in explaining the human rights situation in the country.  “The Forensic Medicine Organization in any country is considered the most competent and specialized institution to produce opinion on issues such as cause of death. Certain human rights mechanisms and countries have unfortunately been prejudiced and judgmental from the very beginning and talked about blows to the head of the foregoing person and even claimed that she was murdered. Albeit it was crystal clear in the first days that there was no beating, now with the statement of the Forensic Medicine Organization, it is seriously expected that they will immediately rectify their mistake which has been made either on purpose or thoughtlessly,” the report said.  It added, “Certain human rights mechanisms and countries have described the riotous gatherings that disrupt security and public order as peaceful and supported the rioters. Of course, their political objectives are no mystery to the Islamic Republic of Iran. Now that more dimensions of the riots and the hands at play have been unraveled – especially following the statement of the Ministry of Intelligence – they are seriously expected to change their positions.” The report continued, “The peaceful gatherings that took place in different parts of the country following the death of the foregoing person have unfortunately morphed into riots and vandalism. In the meantime, certain European countries and the United States started to intervene and support the rioters by openly interfering in Iran’s internal affairs in a completely unconventional manner and contrary to international standards. Other external factors such as terrorist groups and foreign-based Persian language networks also directed their agents and capacities in the riots and provided support thereto. During the riots, certain individuals, led by anti-establishment and terrorist movements, resorted to the worst kind of violence against the people and the police, brandishing combat rifles, armes blanches and incendiaries, while diverting people’s requests and demands. The rioters used social media networks to organize the riots and carry out acts of destruction, thereby inciting and provoking everyone to confront the police. During the disruptive riots, many public and private properties were set ablaze or looted; some law enforcement officers and ordinary people were also killed or injured by armes blanches and firearms brandished by the rioters. Defenseless administrative centers and public services such as banks, ATMs, ambulances, public transportation, police vehicles, fire engines and religious places were widely attacked, many of which were destroyed and burned.” It noted, “The riots have nothing to do with the death of Mahsa Amini, hijab and women’s rights. The enemies of Iran used this pretext and sparked chaos and riots with their continuous plans. In the meantime, those who did not commit acts of sabotage and security- disturbing measures are basically separate from those who entered the riots under the command of certain elements. That is why half of the detainees have hitherto been released based upon Islamic leniency.” The report concluded, “The Islamic Republic of Iran is committed to protecting the basic rights and freedoms of its people according to the accepted laws and obligations; and therefore, it will seriously pursue any restrictions or violations of rights. In this regard, additional reports pertaining the destruction of public and private property and how to deal with judicial cases will be compiled and presented.” All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.