He made the remark in an interview with the Egyptian weekly Al-Osbou expected to come out on Saturday, adding that he and Rice had also exchanged views on making a Middle East free from weapons of mass destruction. At the interview, he dismissed any rumor on formation of a block of moderate states in the region and said that the issue was not brought up at the recent meeting of Rice with the foreign ministers of eight Arab countries in Cairo. Mubarak added that his country is against dividing the regional countries into moderates and hardliners. Concerning Palestine, the Egyptian president said that the issue is still pending and non-resolvable, adding that no measure has been taken toward establishment of a new Palestinian government. Turning to the current situation in Lebanon and Syria, he said that the countries of the region should solve any discord among themselves through dialogue. The foreign ministers of Persian Gulf Cooperation Council member states plus Egypt and Jordan held a meeting in Cairo on Tuesday which was also attended by Rice. The Middle East tour of Condoleezza Rice started on Sunday with here visit to Saudi Arabia. In addition to Egypt, she also visited the Palestine occupied territory and Iraq. The Persian Gulf Cooperation Council members include UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Bahrain.
                  At the interview, he dismissed any rumor on formation of a block of moderate states in the region and said that the issue was not brought up at the recent meeting of Rice with the foreign ministers of eight Arab countries in Cairo. Mubarak added that his country is against dividing the regional countries into moderates and hardliners. Concerning Palestine, the Egyptian president said that the issue is still pending and non-resolvable, adding that no measure has been taken toward establishment of a new Palestinian government. Turning to the current situation in Lebanon and Syria, he said that the countries of the region should solve any discord among themselves through dialogue. The foreign ministers of Persian Gulf Cooperation Council member states plus Egypt and Jordan held a meeting in Cairo on Tuesday which was also attended by Rice. The Middle East tour of Condoleezza Rice started on Sunday with here visit to Saudi Arabia. In addition to Egypt, she also visited the Palestine occupied territory and Iraq. The Persian Gulf Cooperation Council members include UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Bahrain.
                  Mubarak added that his country is against dividing the regional countries into moderates and hardliners. Concerning Palestine, the Egyptian president said that the issue is still pending and non-resolvable, adding that no measure has been taken toward establishment of a new Palestinian government. Turning to the current situation in Lebanon and Syria, he said that the countries of the region should solve any discord among themselves through dialogue. The foreign ministers of Persian Gulf Cooperation Council member states plus Egypt and Jordan held a meeting in Cairo on Tuesday which was also attended by Rice. The Middle East tour of Condoleezza Rice started on Sunday with here visit to Saudi Arabia. In addition to Egypt, she also visited the Palestine occupied territory and Iraq. The Persian Gulf Cooperation Council members include UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Bahrain.
                  Concerning Palestine, the Egyptian president said that the issue is still pending and non-resolvable, adding that no measure has been taken toward establishment of a new Palestinian government. Turning to the current situation in Lebanon and Syria, he said that the countries of the region should solve any discord among themselves through dialogue. The foreign ministers of Persian Gulf Cooperation Council member states plus Egypt and Jordan held a meeting in Cairo on Tuesday which was also attended by Rice. The Middle East tour of Condoleezza Rice started on Sunday with here visit to Saudi Arabia. In addition to Egypt, she also visited the Palestine occupied territory and Iraq. The Persian Gulf Cooperation Council members include UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Bahrain.
                  Turning to the current situation in Lebanon and Syria, he said that the countries of the region should solve any discord among themselves through dialogue. The foreign ministers of Persian Gulf Cooperation Council member states plus Egypt and Jordan held a meeting in Cairo on Tuesday which was also attended by Rice. The Middle East tour of Condoleezza Rice started on Sunday with here visit to Saudi Arabia. In addition to Egypt, she also visited the Palestine occupied territory and Iraq. The Persian Gulf Cooperation Council members include UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Bahrain.
                  The foreign ministers of Persian Gulf Cooperation Council member states plus Egypt and Jordan held a meeting in Cairo on Tuesday which was also attended by Rice. The Middle East tour of Condoleezza Rice started on Sunday with here visit to Saudi Arabia. In addition to Egypt, she also visited the Palestine occupied territory and Iraq. The Persian Gulf Cooperation Council members include UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Bahrain.
                  The Middle East tour of Condoleezza Rice started on Sunday with here visit to Saudi Arabia. In addition to Egypt, she also visited the Palestine occupied territory and Iraq. The Persian Gulf Cooperation Council members include UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Bahrain.
                  The Persian Gulf Cooperation Council members include UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Bahrain.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.