TEHRAN _ Following the increasing public dissatisfaction with the controversial U.S. President, Donald Trump, some Democrat figures are now preparing themselves to compete for the presidential elections in 2020. Many American affairs analysts believe that if the current situation continues in the United States, the Democratic nominee in 2020 will be able to defeat Trump and enter the White House. In other words, the probability of Trump becoming a single term president (like Jimmy Carter) is high. The probability of Trump's defeat in the U.S. presidential election of 2020 is relatively high. That is what prompted the Democrats for attempting to re-conquer the White House. But the main question here is who will be the Democratic nominee in the next presidential election? Even though the inner-party rivalry will determine the party's final candidate, but among the figures that have so far attracted American media attention, the name of two people is extremely impressive. The first person who did not reject the possibility of his candidacy in 2020, and is also relatively popular among the Democrats, is "Joe Biden", the former Vice-President of the United States of America. Over the past months, some U.S. sources have reported the possibility of Joe Biden's candidacy for the 2010 presidential election. Biden also expressed some interest in the issue in his remarks. Of course, he has not yet announced his definitive presence in this political scene. The vice president of the United States has recently stated that he is uncertain about a run for president in 2020, but he is looking for fresh blood to lead the Democratic Party back to the White House." “I’ve done it a long time,” said Biden, who previously ran for president in 1988 and 2008, “and I’m just not sure it’s the appropriate thing for me to do.”
Biden suggested that if “no one steps up,” he’d be open to giving it another try. “I’m not doing anything to run,” he said. “I’m not taking names, I’m not raising money, I’m not talking to anybody, but something’s got to happen.” As Biden's remarks indicate, he isn't reluctant to take part in the 2010 presidential elections. Interestingly, the publication of some polls about Biden's growing popularity with American citizens has increased his motivation to take part in the 2020 political summit. Not long ago, the U.S. Congressional website (Hill) released a poll on the 2020 presidential election. According to the poll, former U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, in the 2020 presidential race, would be eleven points ahead Donald Trump, the current president of the United States. According to a poll by the Politico-Morning Consult Institute, 46% of the Voters will support Biden in the 2020 championship, while only 35% would support Trump. Interestingly, even among white Americans, Biden is more popular than Trump. In other words, if Biden nominates for the 2020 election, some white Americans who voted for Trump in the 2016 presidential election would vote in favor of the former Vice President and the Democrats this time.  Another politician who has been nominated for Democrats inter party competition for the 2020 presidential election is Bernie Sanders, a 75-year old senator and Hillary Clinton's rival in the last year's presidential election. According to polls conducted in the United States, Sanders is one of the most popular political figures in the country. During the last year's campaign, he was defeated by the lobby behind the Democratic leaders and their support for Hillary Clinton. Many American affairs analysts believe that if Bernie Sanders was introduced as the Democratic nominee and competed with Republican nominee Donald Trump, he could have defeated his rival by 15 percent and enter the White House. In any case, Sanders, in some of his statements, implicitly confirmed his participation in the upcoming presidential elections in the United States. The Democrats are now struggling to win the Senate and the House of Representatives mid-term elections (Congressional mid-term elections in 2018), and conquer the majority of the Congress. They plan to pave the way for themselves for winning the 2020 presidential elections. But it should be noted that the internal equations of the Democrats have been severely disrupted after the 2016 presidential election. Meanwhile, the increase in Democratic Party popularity over the past year has been due to the disorders of Donald Trump government. As you can see, the main strength of the Democrats is the weakness of Trump's government! Hillary Clinton is a failed Democrat candidate in the 2016 presidential election, another politician who has not yet announced her presence or absence in the 2020 presidential election campaigns. Many Democrat supporters believe that after Clinton's failure in the last year's presidential election, her candidacy for the next election of the United States is no longer acceptable. It should not be forgotten that Hillary Clinton was once again defeated by Barack Obama during the 2008 inter-party rivalries for the presidential elections. Even Bill Clinton's strong lobbying with Democrat leaders wasn't of much help to Hillary Clinton in the two presidential elections of 2008 and 2016. More importantly, the case of Clinton's controversial emails is still open. This case can once again turn into the Achilles heel of the former U.S. Secretary of State. Even Hillary Clinton's sense of retaliation against Trump doesn't seem to help her to win over the next Democratic nominees such as Biden and Sanders. Any how it looks like Hillary Clinton and her proponents haven't exactly understood this problem yet ... All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.