TEHRAN - The “Deal of Century” was orchestrated by the United States and Israel in order to remove the Palestine from the geography of the world. Several resolutions and agreements have been signed between Israel and Palestine since 1967 in the process of Peace Talks, so that solution of two states, one government, and even confederation have been included in these agreements. In this regard, each of former presidents of the United States presented a peace plan to solve the problem and this time, it was Trump’s turn.  The family of Donald Trump and Jared Kushner formulated and compiled the ‘Deal of Century’ Plan according to the family agreement since Palestinian and Israeli sides have different imaginations of the Deal. In the process of formation of the ‘Deal of Century’, they [Trump and Kushner] considered the Palestinian issue as a personal and family issue. By calculating that Jared Kushner is Jewish and his wife is also Jewish and U.S. President Donald Trump is also interested in Israel. So, Palestinian issue can have a family solution. It is not important that the differences between Palestinians and Israelis are a difference in the width of history and in the extent of ideological differences.  In formulation of the ‘Deal of Century’, both Trump and Kushner did not pay attention to this issue that resolving problem of Israel with the Islamic countries is not the problem that is confined or limited only to the United States or Israel. From the political point of view, the issue is not even comprehensible for them [Trump and Kushner] that, despite all international efforts and political initiatives taken in the recent decades, resolving this crisis has become more complicated every year.  The Trump family should understand this issue that situation in Palestine is tied with the Resolution 242 of the United Nations inked in 1967, stipulating that Israel must withdraw from the Golan Heights, Jordan River, Gaza Strip, and the West Bank. On the other hand, the resistance of Palestinian people, which began with the throwing of stone, has now been turned into resistance with the power of deterrence that owns pinpointing rockets and missiles.  Even if the Palestinians relinquish their inalienable rights [that will not ignore it definitely], the future of Bait Al Muqaddas (Jerusalem), as the first Qibla of Muslims and the Ascendant of the Holy Prophet of Islam (S) as well as Palestinian citizenship within a ‘geographical area under Israeli mandate’ will turn the Palestinian problem from a territorial problem into an ideological and trans-regional problem. Such a situation would add to the desire Palestinians for more resistance and also would confront Israel with new trans-regional political and armed groups as well.  Jared Kushner unveiled the plan of ‘Deal of Century’ for representatives of Arab and European countries in Manama, capital of Bahrain, on June 25, 2019. In this initiative plan, Kushner considered economic solution as ‘alternative’ of political solution for ending the conflict between the two parties [Palestine and Israel]. In the opening remarks of the ‘Deal of Century’, he clearly put the value of land and territory of Palestine and its identity at $52 billion. By insulting the Palestinians and their struggles, he [Kushner] called Palestinians as people who have lived without understanding what the peace means. In the plan of ‘Deal of Century’, Kushner defines Palestine as land and territory which is confined to a geographical area without a nation, government, army and also conceptual boundaries. Moreover, in his defined project, Kushner said that Palestine is an area in the West Bank and Gaza Strip that are connected with each other through railway. This area is supposed to be managed and administered by multinational companies whose staff are from the people of Palestine under the strict supervision of the United States and Israel.   In Kushner’s plan, people of Palestine have been supposed as ‘unable, unhealthy’ people and emphasized, “We need a healthy economy and healthy people for empowering them [Palestinian people].”  The ‘government and accountability of the government towards people’ have been highlighted in formulation of the ‘Deal of Century’, while Palestinian land and territory and also Palestinian government have not been taken into consideration. In this Plan, it has only been emphasized that Palestine was established through foreign investment. In formulation of ‘Deal of Century’, Kushner has considered Palestinian land as a free trade zone than a state with clear-cut government, nation and identity. The “Deal of Century” is about turning the Palestinian nation and people into an Israeli-led development project.  In Kushner’s plan of ‘Deal of Century’, share of Palestinian people in empowerment and reconstruction of Palestine has been considered ‘negligible and insignificant’. In this plan, share of Palestinian people to create equality and justice in the newly-established companies and lending facilities has been considered just $100 million out of $52 billion that is supposed to be put available to U.S. companies.  Now, the “Deal of Century” was unveiled in Bahrain Conference with $52 billion investment of Trump’s family to resolve Palestinian problem. However, it should be considered that what achievements this plan would bring about for Palestine, Israel and other countries if the plan is succeeded. The “Deal of Century” will resolve the problem of Resolution 242 for Israel, allowing Tel Aviv, capital of Israel, to legalize its settlements with the geographical privileges it receives.  Under the Plan, Israel can maintain its border security more than before. In addition, risk of outbreak of a civil war, from withdrawing the areas that are home to hundreds of thousands of Jews, will also be removed.  From the United States point of view, recognizing Al Quds as capital of Israel and relocation of embassies of other countries to Jerusalem (Al Quds) is raised and it is not supposed that a state named ‘Palestine’ will be recognized as the capital of Al Quds.  The United States believes that “Deal of Century” should create a strong barrier against Iran’s expansionism and must secure interests of U.S. and Israel in the region.  Arab countries should pay $50 billion to U.S. and Israeli companies with regard to Kushner’s plans and prosperity of Palestine.  In Manama Conference, Kushner emphasized, “After ceding their land and territory, Palestinians can export their traditional foods, which have unique tastes and flavors, along with their handicrafts to the world markets.” After the plan of “Deal of Century’ was unveiled it was even criticized by the U.S. President Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.  In media circles and public opinion of the United States, this plan has also been nicknamed as “Waste of Time”.  Although “Deal of Century” succeeded to convene representatives of Arab and Israeli countries in Warsaw and Manama conferences, these meetings have not so far produced positive results.  * Author: Mohammad Ghaderi , Tehran Times editor in chief  His page on Twitter : @ghaderi62 - and Gmail address : m.ghaderi62@gmail.com All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.