Razak was speaking to visiting Iranian Minister of Communications and Information Technology Mohammad Soleimani, who is currently in Malaysia for an official four-day visit. Pointing to great potentials for expansion of ties between the two countries, Razak said the Iranian and Malaysian private companies would play a positive role in promoting mutual relations. He praised deep-rooted Iranian culture and civilization and said Iran and Malaysia had an increasing trend of ties during recent years. The Malaysian deputy prime minister stressed that Iran's right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes should be observed, adding that Malaysia has always supported Iran's peaceful nuclear program and will do so in the future. Soleimani, on his part, praised economic relations between the two countries and said, "The volume of economic cooperation between Iran and Malaysia has increased by over 50 percent during the past year. "The two sides' officials have signed several agreements for cooperation." The Iranian minister added the two sides can expand bilateral cooperation in transportation, power plant, housing, information technology, and oil and gas fields. During his stay in Malaysia, Soleimani also met with Minister of Energy, Communications, and Multimedia Lim Keng Yaik and Minister of Science and Technology Jamaludin Jarjis. He also visited Malaysia's scientific centers. The Iranian delegation is scheduled to leave Kuala Lumpur for Tehran tonight.
                  Pointing to great potentials for expansion of ties between the two countries, Razak said the Iranian and Malaysian private companies would play a positive role in promoting mutual relations. He praised deep-rooted Iranian culture and civilization and said Iran and Malaysia had an increasing trend of ties during recent years. The Malaysian deputy prime minister stressed that Iran's right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes should be observed, adding that Malaysia has always supported Iran's peaceful nuclear program and will do so in the future. Soleimani, on his part, praised economic relations between the two countries and said, "The volume of economic cooperation between Iran and Malaysia has increased by over 50 percent during the past year. "The two sides' officials have signed several agreements for cooperation." The Iranian minister added the two sides can expand bilateral cooperation in transportation, power plant, housing, information technology, and oil and gas fields. During his stay in Malaysia, Soleimani also met with Minister of Energy, Communications, and Multimedia Lim Keng Yaik and Minister of Science and Technology Jamaludin Jarjis. He also visited Malaysia's scientific centers. The Iranian delegation is scheduled to leave Kuala Lumpur for Tehran tonight.
                  He praised deep-rooted Iranian culture and civilization and said Iran and Malaysia had an increasing trend of ties during recent years. The Malaysian deputy prime minister stressed that Iran's right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes should be observed, adding that Malaysia has always supported Iran's peaceful nuclear program and will do so in the future. Soleimani, on his part, praised economic relations between the two countries and said, "The volume of economic cooperation between Iran and Malaysia has increased by over 50 percent during the past year. "The two sides' officials have signed several agreements for cooperation." The Iranian minister added the two sides can expand bilateral cooperation in transportation, power plant, housing, information technology, and oil and gas fields. During his stay in Malaysia, Soleimani also met with Minister of Energy, Communications, and Multimedia Lim Keng Yaik and Minister of Science and Technology Jamaludin Jarjis. He also visited Malaysia's scientific centers. The Iranian delegation is scheduled to leave Kuala Lumpur for Tehran tonight.
                  The Malaysian deputy prime minister stressed that Iran's right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes should be observed, adding that Malaysia has always supported Iran's peaceful nuclear program and will do so in the future. Soleimani, on his part, praised economic relations between the two countries and said, "The volume of economic cooperation between Iran and Malaysia has increased by over 50 percent during the past year. "The two sides' officials have signed several agreements for cooperation." The Iranian minister added the two sides can expand bilateral cooperation in transportation, power plant, housing, information technology, and oil and gas fields. During his stay in Malaysia, Soleimani also met with Minister of Energy, Communications, and Multimedia Lim Keng Yaik and Minister of Science and Technology Jamaludin Jarjis. He also visited Malaysia's scientific centers. The Iranian delegation is scheduled to leave Kuala Lumpur for Tehran tonight.
                  Soleimani, on his part, praised economic relations between the two countries and said, "The volume of economic cooperation between Iran and Malaysia has increased by over 50 percent during the past year. "The two sides' officials have signed several agreements for cooperation." The Iranian minister added the two sides can expand bilateral cooperation in transportation, power plant, housing, information technology, and oil and gas fields. During his stay in Malaysia, Soleimani also met with Minister of Energy, Communications, and Multimedia Lim Keng Yaik and Minister of Science and Technology Jamaludin Jarjis. He also visited Malaysia's scientific centers. The Iranian delegation is scheduled to leave Kuala Lumpur for Tehran tonight.
                  The Iranian minister added the two sides can expand bilateral cooperation in transportation, power plant, housing, information technology, and oil and gas fields. During his stay in Malaysia, Soleimani also met with Minister of Energy, Communications, and Multimedia Lim Keng Yaik and Minister of Science and Technology Jamaludin Jarjis. He also visited Malaysia's scientific centers. The Iranian delegation is scheduled to leave Kuala Lumpur for Tehran tonight.
                  During his stay in Malaysia, Soleimani also met with Minister of Energy, Communications, and Multimedia Lim Keng Yaik and Minister of Science and Technology Jamaludin Jarjis. He also visited Malaysia's scientific centers. The Iranian delegation is scheduled to leave Kuala Lumpur for Tehran tonight.
                  He also visited Malaysia's scientific centers. The Iranian delegation is scheduled to leave Kuala Lumpur for Tehran tonight.
                  The Iranian delegation is scheduled to leave Kuala Lumpur for Tehran tonight.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.