Speaking at opening ceremony of an administrative-research complex of the Provincial ISIRI, he said that unfortunately in the past years, misguided mind-set and special cultural norms among the public have influenced the market for domestic goods. "Based on the figures released by the Industries and Mines Ministry, there has been a dramatic boost in the quality of domestically produced goods in the past decade," Abrishami said. We should support the domestic producers with widespread cultural programs and at the same time closely monitor the market for imported goods, he said. He said providing financial assistance with the aim of improving the quality of domestic production are among ISIRI priorities. Abrishami added that ISIRI has responsibilities for over 400 different kinds of goods with the goals that safety, health and economic standards are adhered to. Earlier in August, Abrishami said Iran ranks 34th among 135 member states of the International Standards Organization. Speaking at the ceremony of inaugurating a new production line of "Zamzam Soft Drink Company", he added that learning to adhere to the necessary standards and security are among the necessities of life which boosts the quality of industrial outputs in the country." Turning to the automobile sector as a sector where ISIRI has been closely monitoring production, he said standards are being observed in Iran for production of safety parts for automobiles, IRNA reported. He said ISIRI has directed to the "55 standards, which comprise automobile comprehensive safety system, to be outlined." The policies on standards regarding domestic automobile production and car imports have to be strictly adhered to, the industry official underlined. He added that ISIRI is involved as an observer in the production of auto parts, "but, has no role in the manufacturing of automobiles."
                  "Based on the figures released by the Industries and Mines Ministry, there has been a dramatic boost in the quality of domestically produced goods in the past decade," Abrishami said. We should support the domestic producers with widespread cultural programs and at the same time closely monitor the market for imported goods, he said. He said providing financial assistance with the aim of improving the quality of domestic production are among ISIRI priorities. Abrishami added that ISIRI has responsibilities for over 400 different kinds of goods with the goals that safety, health and economic standards are adhered to. Earlier in August, Abrishami said Iran ranks 34th among 135 member states of the International Standards Organization. Speaking at the ceremony of inaugurating a new production line of "Zamzam Soft Drink Company", he added that learning to adhere to the necessary standards and security are among the necessities of life which boosts the quality of industrial outputs in the country." Turning to the automobile sector as a sector where ISIRI has been closely monitoring production, he said standards are being observed in Iran for production of safety parts for automobiles, IRNA reported. He said ISIRI has directed to the "55 standards, which comprise automobile comprehensive safety system, to be outlined." The policies on standards regarding domestic automobile production and car imports have to be strictly adhered to, the industry official underlined. He added that ISIRI is involved as an observer in the production of auto parts, "but, has no role in the manufacturing of automobiles."
                  We should support the domestic producers with widespread cultural programs and at the same time closely monitor the market for imported goods, he said. He said providing financial assistance with the aim of improving the quality of domestic production are among ISIRI priorities. Abrishami added that ISIRI has responsibilities for over 400 different kinds of goods with the goals that safety, health and economic standards are adhered to. Earlier in August, Abrishami said Iran ranks 34th among 135 member states of the International Standards Organization. Speaking at the ceremony of inaugurating a new production line of "Zamzam Soft Drink Company", he added that learning to adhere to the necessary standards and security are among the necessities of life which boosts the quality of industrial outputs in the country." Turning to the automobile sector as a sector where ISIRI has been closely monitoring production, he said standards are being observed in Iran for production of safety parts for automobiles, IRNA reported. He said ISIRI has directed to the "55 standards, which comprise automobile comprehensive safety system, to be outlined." The policies on standards regarding domestic automobile production and car imports have to be strictly adhered to, the industry official underlined. He added that ISIRI is involved as an observer in the production of auto parts, "but, has no role in the manufacturing of automobiles."
                  He said providing financial assistance with the aim of improving the quality of domestic production are among ISIRI priorities. Abrishami added that ISIRI has responsibilities for over 400 different kinds of goods with the goals that safety, health and economic standards are adhered to. Earlier in August, Abrishami said Iran ranks 34th among 135 member states of the International Standards Organization. Speaking at the ceremony of inaugurating a new production line of "Zamzam Soft Drink Company", he added that learning to adhere to the necessary standards and security are among the necessities of life which boosts the quality of industrial outputs in the country." Turning to the automobile sector as a sector where ISIRI has been closely monitoring production, he said standards are being observed in Iran for production of safety parts for automobiles, IRNA reported. He said ISIRI has directed to the "55 standards, which comprise automobile comprehensive safety system, to be outlined." The policies on standards regarding domestic automobile production and car imports have to be strictly adhered to, the industry official underlined. He added that ISIRI is involved as an observer in the production of auto parts, "but, has no role in the manufacturing of automobiles."
                  Abrishami added that ISIRI has responsibilities for over 400 different kinds of goods with the goals that safety, health and economic standards are adhered to. Earlier in August, Abrishami said Iran ranks 34th among 135 member states of the International Standards Organization. Speaking at the ceremony of inaugurating a new production line of "Zamzam Soft Drink Company", he added that learning to adhere to the necessary standards and security are among the necessities of life which boosts the quality of industrial outputs in the country." Turning to the automobile sector as a sector where ISIRI has been closely monitoring production, he said standards are being observed in Iran for production of safety parts for automobiles, IRNA reported. He said ISIRI has directed to the "55 standards, which comprise automobile comprehensive safety system, to be outlined." The policies on standards regarding domestic automobile production and car imports have to be strictly adhered to, the industry official underlined. He added that ISIRI is involved as an observer in the production of auto parts, "but, has no role in the manufacturing of automobiles."
                  Earlier in August, Abrishami said Iran ranks 34th among 135 member states of the International Standards Organization. Speaking at the ceremony of inaugurating a new production line of "Zamzam Soft Drink Company", he added that learning to adhere to the necessary standards and security are among the necessities of life which boosts the quality of industrial outputs in the country." Turning to the automobile sector as a sector where ISIRI has been closely monitoring production, he said standards are being observed in Iran for production of safety parts for automobiles, IRNA reported. He said ISIRI has directed to the "55 standards, which comprise automobile comprehensive safety system, to be outlined." The policies on standards regarding domestic automobile production and car imports have to be strictly adhered to, the industry official underlined. He added that ISIRI is involved as an observer in the production of auto parts, "but, has no role in the manufacturing of automobiles."
                  Turning to the automobile sector as a sector where ISIRI has been closely monitoring production, he said standards are being observed in Iran for production of safety parts for automobiles, IRNA reported. He said ISIRI has directed to the "55 standards, which comprise automobile comprehensive safety system, to be outlined." The policies on standards regarding domestic automobile production and car imports have to be strictly adhered to, the industry official underlined. He added that ISIRI is involved as an observer in the production of auto parts, "but, has no role in the manufacturing of automobiles."
                  The policies on standards regarding domestic automobile production and car imports have to be strictly adhered to, the industry official underlined. He added that ISIRI is involved as an observer in the production of auto parts, "but, has no role in the manufacturing of automobiles."
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.