What sparked the recent Palestinian uprising was a provocative visit to the Al-Aqsa Mosque, the third holiest place in Islam after Mecca and Medina, by the radical Zionist and butcher of innocent Palestinians, Ariel Sharon, who intended to desecrate the mosque. This made the zealous Palestinians rise up against his offensive act in order to restore the dignity of Al-Aqsa Mosque, the first Qibla of Muslims. Considering the Zionist brutalities against the oppressed Palestinians, the Muslim nations throughout the world should extend whatever support they can to the Palestinian nation and also put pressure on their governments to distance themselves from the occupier and aggressor Zionist entity. Even the Muslim community in London is now putting pressure on 10 Downing Street to apply a weapons embargo against Israel. The Palestinian people have now realized that they can restore their violated rights only through a general uprising. This is because the Zionist regime has refused to implement even a single one of many UN Security Council resolutions passed in support of the Palestinian rights, including the resolution that recognized the right of the Palestinian refugees to return to their homeland. The Palestinians are also disappointed with the U.S.-brokered peace process due to the biased role played by Washington in favor of the Zionist entity. Because of the blind U.S. support for the Zionist regime, the Zionists have even reneged on most of their agreements reached with the Palestinian Authority within the framework of Oslo Accords in 1993. Palestine belongs to Palestinian Muslims, Christians and Jews who have lived in this holy land for centuries and who are the only ones entitled to shape the future of Palestine. Thus, the Zionist entity, established in 1948 by a bunch of Zionists who were encouraged by the former colonial power Britain to emigrate to Palestine and kill or displace millions of innocent Palestinians, should be dissolved and the rule of the land should be entrusted to its real owners.
                  Considering the Zionist brutalities against the oppressed Palestinians, the Muslim nations throughout the world should extend whatever support they can to the Palestinian nation and also put pressure on their governments to distance themselves from the occupier and aggressor Zionist entity. Even the Muslim community in London is now putting pressure on 10 Downing Street to apply a weapons embargo against Israel. The Palestinian people have now realized that they can restore their violated rights only through a general uprising. This is because the Zionist regime has refused to implement even a single one of many UN Security Council resolutions passed in support of the Palestinian rights, including the resolution that recognized the right of the Palestinian refugees to return to their homeland. The Palestinians are also disappointed with the U.S.-brokered peace process due to the biased role played by Washington in favor of the Zionist entity. Because of the blind U.S. support for the Zionist regime, the Zionists have even reneged on most of their agreements reached with the Palestinian Authority within the framework of Oslo Accords in 1993. Palestine belongs to Palestinian Muslims, Christians and Jews who have lived in this holy land for centuries and who are the only ones entitled to shape the future of Palestine. Thus, the Zionist entity, established in 1948 by a bunch of Zionists who were encouraged by the former colonial power Britain to emigrate to Palestine and kill or displace millions of innocent Palestinians, should be dissolved and the rule of the land should be entrusted to its real owners.
                  Even the Muslim community in London is now putting pressure on 10 Downing Street to apply a weapons embargo against Israel. The Palestinian people have now realized that they can restore their violated rights only through a general uprising. This is because the Zionist regime has refused to implement even a single one of many UN Security Council resolutions passed in support of the Palestinian rights, including the resolution that recognized the right of the Palestinian refugees to return to their homeland. The Palestinians are also disappointed with the U.S.-brokered peace process due to the biased role played by Washington in favor of the Zionist entity. Because of the blind U.S. support for the Zionist regime, the Zionists have even reneged on most of their agreements reached with the Palestinian Authority within the framework of Oslo Accords in 1993. Palestine belongs to Palestinian Muslims, Christians and Jews who have lived in this holy land for centuries and who are the only ones entitled to shape the future of Palestine. Thus, the Zionist entity, established in 1948 by a bunch of Zionists who were encouraged by the former colonial power Britain to emigrate to Palestine and kill or displace millions of innocent Palestinians, should be dissolved and the rule of the land should be entrusted to its real owners.
                  The Palestinian people have now realized that they can restore their violated rights only through a general uprising. This is because the Zionist regime has refused to implement even a single one of many UN Security Council resolutions passed in support of the Palestinian rights, including the resolution that recognized the right of the Palestinian refugees to return to their homeland. The Palestinians are also disappointed with the U.S.-brokered peace process due to the biased role played by Washington in favor of the Zionist entity. Because of the blind U.S. support for the Zionist regime, the Zionists have even reneged on most of their agreements reached with the Palestinian Authority within the framework of Oslo Accords in 1993. Palestine belongs to Palestinian Muslims, Christians and Jews who have lived in this holy land for centuries and who are the only ones entitled to shape the future of Palestine. Thus, the Zionist entity, established in 1948 by a bunch of Zionists who were encouraged by the former colonial power Britain to emigrate to Palestine and kill or displace millions of innocent Palestinians, should be dissolved and the rule of the land should be entrusted to its real owners.
                  Palestine belongs to Palestinian Muslims, Christians and Jews who have lived in this holy land for centuries and who are the only ones entitled to shape the future of Palestine. Thus, the Zionist entity, established in 1948 by a bunch of Zionists who were encouraged by the former colonial power Britain to emigrate to Palestine and kill or displace millions of innocent Palestinians, should be dissolved and the rule of the land should be entrusted to its real owners.
                 All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.