TEHRAN — The Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman says Tehran will react to new sanctions and pressure by the U.S. and its European allies to gain new concessions or blackmail Iran.  Speaking at his weekly press conference on Monday, Nasser Kanaani faced questions regarding the latest developments surrounding the negotiations to revive the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the official name for the 2015 nuclear deal.  In the recent conversation between Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian and EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell, it was reiterated that Tehran still adheres to the path of negotiations, Kanaani said.  The Foreign Ministry spokesman says Iran launched attacks on bases of terrorists and separatists in northern Iraq after all official and diplomatic steps were exhausted. “The views of the other side have been raised and we have heard some voices in Europe or the United States, who linked the process of talks with the recent internal issues in Iran and fueled the spread of false and inaccurate reports,” the spokesman noted, adding that the internal issue of Iran is related to the government and people of Iran and the Islamic Republic will not allow any country to interfere in its internal affairs.  The issue of negotiations has a clear framework, Kanaani stated, noting that Iran's position has been stated many times and Tehran is ready to move forward in the same direction and reach a comprehensive agreement that will provide the interests of all parties. “Based on mutual respect and interests, we are ready for bilateral interaction with all the parties who were on the path of negotiation so that the negotiation will come to a conclusion. We emphasize that we will stand firmly and decisively against any attempt by the parties, especially the Western parties and the United States, to impose new sanctions and pressure for concessions and blackmail, and against any restrictive measures against the nation and government of Iran, and we will respond in a timely manner,” he cautioned.  Iran cannot stand idly by in the face of chaos  In response to a question about the unconventional stance of some European countries regarding the recent unrest in Iran and the attack on the Iranian embassy in Denmark and the actions of the Foreign Ministry in this regard, the diplomat criticized the double standards of the West, saying, “Unfortunately, we are witnessing the double standards of these countries regarding the issue of human rights. It is very interesting that they talk about their opposition to violence and at the same time advise the Iranian government to exercise restraint and avoid violent actions against those who disturbed public security.” Kanaani continued, “Iran has repeatedly said that it listens to protests and criticism and believes in dialogue, but as the guardian of the security of its citizens, Iran cannot stand idly by in the face of chaos and disorder. Protest and riot are two different approaches and have two different results. Those who advise Iran to be non-violent allow violent people in their own countries to commit violent acts against Iranian embassies and attack them, which have diplomatic immunity based on the Vienna Convention. They even allow violent people to attack Iranian diplomats in a country that claims to be a democracy. They preach us the lessons of democracy and give moral advice on how to interact with citizens, while they allow an attacker to enter the embassy with a cold weapon and threaten and attack the Iranian ambassador, who is a lady, and beat up an Iranian employee.” Kanaani then questioned the Western governments’ ethical recommendations to Iran on how to deal with protesters, noting that Iran has no problem with protest and criticism, but regarding violence and riots, it is obliged to provide security for its citizens. He continued, “This is purely exercising double standards. They allow groups that have a history of terrorist acts to operate in countries and take action against Iranian embassies and diplomats. We see something in action and something in words. We recommend them to set aside hypocrisy and fulfill their legal duties and ensure the safety of our diplomats and adhere to the principles that they advise us in relation to their own citizens and in relation to the citizens of other countries.” Blocking Schengen for Iranians is unacceptable Responding to a question regarding some European embassies not issuing Schengen visas to Iranian nationals, the spokesman said any restrictive action taken in this regard, if true, is unacceptable. “Creating restrictions on the travel of Iranian citizens is contrary to what was announced. They keep talking about the rights of Iranian people and on the other hand are creating restrictions on their travel.  This is a contradictory approach and we hope this report would turn out as false and Iranian citizens travel according to their needs.” Iran and Iraq held consultations on KRG issues last week Responding to a question about Iran and Iraq’s disputes regarding the fact that the Iraqi Kurdistan Region is hosting bases for terrorist and separatist groups, the spokesman said what Iran did (bombing the bases) was after all official and diplomatic steps were exhausted. “Iran gave a positive response to the Iraqi government's request for dialogue and a meeting was held last week between the relevant officials in Baghdad. In this meeting, the details of the investigation were discussed, and Iran presented its views. While the Iranian side emphasizes respecting Iraq's sovereignty and territorial integrity, it expects the Iraqi central government to exercise its sovereignty over its entire land and prevent parts of this country's territory to be used as launchpad for attack on Iran’s borders and border guards,” the spokesman noted. Kanaani continued, “Iran expressed its views and the Iraqi government listened to the views and gave the necessary promises to Iran. Iran, while maintaining its readiness to defend its security and the security of its borders and its citizens and maintaining readiness to deal with any illegal actions, is simultaneously waiting for the actions of the Iraqi government to fulfill its responsibilities and fully establish security on the borders of the two countries.” Interim Afghan governing body must provide security for citizens Elsewhere in the presser, the spokesman expressed its sorrow and regret over the tragic terrorist attacks in Afghanistan, saying, “It is the responsibility of the interim governing body of Afghanistan to ensure the security of the people of Afghanistan. This is also the responsibility of human rights institutions. We have always tried hard in this regard and our relationship with the interim governing body of Afghanistan continues.” He then emphasized the necessity of forming an inclusive government and trying to meet the economic needs of Afghan citizens and expanding commercial cooperation and meeting basic needs in the fields of food and health and helping the Afghan people in the difficult economic conditions. Iran transferred some Afghan citizens seriously injured in terrorist attacks to the country for treatment. Iran has also sent humanitarian aid to the areas affected by floods. “In the political path, Iran has tried hard to convince the interim governing body of Afghanistan to form an inclusive government, both in the field of economic relations and the development of bilateral relations, to meet the needs of the people, and to contribute to regional multilateral approaches for peace and stability in this country,” the spokesman stated.    All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.