TEHRAN - Robert David Steele, a former Marine Corps infantry officer and CIA spy who was recommended for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2017, regularly answers questions for Tehran Times. Q: Top Trump administration officials have advocated for a plan to build dozens of nuclear power plants in Saudi Arabia despite warnings that the move could pose ethical concerns and violate federal law, according to a report released by House Democrats. Which groups in U.S. will try to sell this sensitive technology to Saudi Arabia? A: First let me say that the power behind Trump that is seeking to increase Saudi Arabian nuclear capabilities is King Jared as he is now being called, the false messiah of the Chabad Supremacist cult. He is a toxic presence in the White House and is known to be an agent of a foreign power, Zionist Israel.[1] We also have reports that former National Security Advisor General Michael Flynn has been active in helping a consortium seeking to build 40 nuclear plants and facilities to enrich uranium.[2]  I am not a fan of Jared Kushner, who should be expelled from the White House[3] but I am a huge fan of General Flynn’s and attribute his engagement to his need for money to pay legal bills associated with his contrived destruction by the Deep State terrified of his telling President Trump the truth every day. Second I would emphasize that President Trump is a businessman first and a politician second. Everything he is doing with Saudi Arabia is being done in the absence of a grand strategy, and focused on bringing revenue to US companies. This is more about sales than it is about nuclear. Third, I would point out that Saudi Arabia is already a nuclear power, aided by China, Israel, and Pakistan as well as the USA. Saudi Arabia is said to be spending 40% of its military budget on nuclear arms, and may have tested a nuclear weapon in Yemen.[4] Finally, I completely condemn any expansion of nuclear power. The waste from nuclear power plants – completely apart from their potential as a bridge toward nuclear weaponization – is potentially catastrophic.[5] Saudi Arabia should be pioneering free or zero-point energy and solar power that can be rapidly exported to Somalia and Yemen and Central Asia – Iran and others should be doing this also. I would add that given the effort being made by China with support from Trump toward the unification of the Koreas and the denuclearization and demilitarization of the Koreas, a story I broke on 4 March 2018,[6] there is every reason to believe that in the future Russia, China, and the USA will agree that the Middle East must be denuclearized. In summary, I believe the nuclear power plant matter is on the one hand being advanced by King Jared on behalf of Israel, and on the other, “just business.” Q: Democrats have raised concerns that the Trump administration, in aiding this effort, would allow the Saudi regime access to "sensitive U.S. nuclear technology" that could in turn "allow Saudi Arabia to produce nuclear weapons that contribute to the proliferation of nuclear arms throughout an already unstable Middle East." What is your opinion? A: The Democrats don’t care about anything other than undermining the Trump Administration. Israel has 200 nuclear weapons paid for by the US taxpayer and allowed by both Democratic and Republican administrations. It takes no less than five years toward 10-15 years to build a nuclear power plant.[7]  With the level of corruption and worker incompetence that exists in Saudi Arabia today I am quite certain that none of this will come to fruition before the next US President, elected in 2024, takes office, and gets serious about cutting off all military assistance to Israel and sanctioning Saudi Arabia. Q: Do you think Trump administration will allow Saudi Arabia to develop the capability of enriching uranium and reprocessing of plutonium by itself? A: The short answer is no.  There are a number of us that believe that President Trump is going to turn against the Zionists. He has promised complete disclosure on who did 9/11 – if he fulfills that promise, the Zionist parasite will be expelled from the USA and Israel will cease to exist as a viable country. I plan to make 9/11 disclosure a 2020 election issue and the President knows this, he received my report on 8 August 2018.[8]  I like our President.  I think he is “just doing business” and also playing for time.  If I am wrong it does not matter, in 2024 I anticipate a total overthrow of the two-party tyranny that enables the Deep State and we will finish the job Trump started.[9] Q: The report alleges that those involved in the planning are aiming to enrich themselves and are possibly in violation of the Atomic Energy Act, a federal law that lays out the preconditions of any nuclear deals with another nation and requires Congressional approval. What is the result of the confrontation of the congress and President Trump administration in this case? A: Everyone in the US military-industrial complex is trying to enrich themselves, this should not come as a surprise.  Our Congress is totally corrupt and also being bribed and blackmailed by the Zionists, many with pedophilia videos made by Jeffrey Epstein, a fake billionaire and Mossad extortion specialist. There will be no confrontation.  Israel wants Saudi Arabia nuclearized, it will deliver US Congressional approval.[10] Q: In May 2018, Trump unilaterally withdrew the US from the Iran nuclear agreement. Trump’s logic for the withdrawal was Nuclear Non-Proliferation. But the transferring "sensitive U.S. nuclear technology" that could in turn "allow Saudi Arabia to produce nuclear weapons that contribute to the proliferation of nuclear arms throughout an already unstable Middle East." How can explain this contradiction? A: There is no contradiction. Our President is a genius at leverage and at business.  Let me emphasize that with this quote from Jack Welch, the legendary “Neutron Jack” of General Electric fame: “They can say what they want about him, but I don’t know if any president has been more prepared to sit in that room and talk business. It was like talking to a peer, not a politician. Hell of a meeting.”[11] The mistake Iran continues to make in the Trump era is in not listening to President Vladimir Putin and General Secretary Xi Jinping, both of whom have established working relationships with President Trump that are setting a course of peace and prosperity for all that will last 100 years or more. There is no substitute for a personal meeting with our President. I was recommended for the Nobel Peace Prize – which I do not deserve – because I represent the integration of holistic analytics, true cost economics, and Open Source Everything Engineering (OSEE). The latter enables the creation of a post-Western economy without nuclear and chemical hazards, at ten to twenty percent the cost of the failed Western model that is 50% waste and 90% profit for the banks. This is where Iran should be focusing its mind, in partnership with China and Russia as well as Turkey.  Trump’s problem is that he has a shit staff and a corrupt intelligence community that is consumed with mass surveillance, drone assassinations, and regime change instead of rendering decision-support to the President and everyone else. At the same time, the center of gravity for eradicating the Zionist parasite is not nuclear weapons, it is the hearts and minds and the pocketbooks of the American public. If Iran were to collaborate with Russia and others to accelerate American public understanding of the Zionist role in planning and carrying out the 9/11 atrocity – thousands of times worse than the USS Liberty atrocity – this disclosure will do what decades of atrocities against the Palestinians have not been able to do because of US media complicity in covering it all up: it will wipe out Zionist influence within the US economy, US government, and US society. From where I sit, there is no question but that Mecca should not be left in the hands of war-mongers; Jerusalem is a corpus separatum; Palestine should be Palestinian; Lebanon should again be the Paris of  the Middle East; and Syria should be free to be Syria. These matters are for the 2024-2028 timeframe, and addressed within my eight-part peace proposal for the Middle East.[12] The future is Asian – this is what my friend Parag Khanna documents so well in his book by that title.[13] Turkey and Iran are part of Asia, as is 80% of Russia. In the very near term, the strategic priority for Iran should be facing North and East. Iran – and Turkey – are the logical Eastern edges of the One Belt One Road co-prosperity sphere, until such time as wealth from the east can simply buy peace in the West. The critical missing piece – the catalyst for eradicating the Zionist parasite and creating peace and prosperity for all, is the understanding, embrace, and implementation by leaders everywhere of the post-Western economic and technological paradigm, Open Source Everything Engineering (OSEE) The Open Source Agency I have proposed to President Trump, twice approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) at $2 billion a year Final Operating Capability (FOC) and violently opposed for thirty years by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), should be replicated in every region.[14] It is open source everything engineering, not nuclear weapons, that will win the war between the Satanic 1% and the good people of faith, most very poor, the 99%. Endnotes [1] Robert Steele, “SPECIAL: Jared Kushner Working for Israel to Enable Saudi Arabian Nuclear Attack Against Iran UPDATE 3: Trump May Be Gaming Zionists & Saudis, Pence to Go?” Phi Beta Iota Public Intelligence Blog, 20 May 2017. A recent video makes this point more directly, Editors, “Is Jared Kushner the Jewish Messiah?” Know More News, 1 October 2018. [2] Sean Gallagher, “"Middle East Marshall Plan" appeared to be mostly about money for ex-generals, not policy,” arsTECHNICA, 20 February 2019. [3] Every book about the Trump White House documents the toxic nature of the presence of Kushner, who works for Israel, and Ivanka Trump, or “First Daughter,” who should not be allowed to use the US Government as her playpen. Cf. Robert Steele with Javad Heirannia, “Understanding Donald Trump and the White House: A few books,” Tehran Times, 13 February 2019. [4] Gordon Duff, “Exclusive/Stunning! Saudi Arabia and the Upcoming Secret Nuclear War,” Veterans Today, 16 February 2019; Gordon Duff, “Saudi Arabia Says It Went Nuclear in 2014 and America Knows It,” Veterans Today, 3 February 2019; Gordon Duff, “CIA Expert: Saudi Has Nukes, Building ICBMs,” Veterans Today, 26 January 2019; and Editors, “Is Saudi Arabia Building a Nuclear Weapons Program?” Veterans Today, 23 November 2018. There is a possibility, not confirmed, that Saudi Arabia has tested a nuclear weapon in Yemen, Cf. Gordon Duff, “Did Saudi Arabia Nuke Yemen?” Veterans Today, 20 April 2015. Victor Bout, now in jail in the USA, is offering testimony on the Saudi nuclear program with particular attention to how nuclear materials stolen within the USA with official US Government complicity, have been delivered to Saudi Arabia by Israel. The US is also reported to have delivered to Saudi Arabia new warheads with conical pits, physically small nuclear weapons, which can be used with the F-35. [5] Cf. Charles Perrow, Normal Accidents: Living with High-Risk Technologies (Princeton, 1999); a summary review is free online. [6] Robert Steele, “Is Zionism Over? From Korea to Syria to the Latest #GoogleGestapo Purge, President Donald Trump’s Divorce from Zionism Appears Increasingly Possible,” American Herald Tribune, 4 March 2018. [7] Euan Mearns, “How long does it take to build a nuclear power plant?” EuanMearns.com, 27 July 2016. [8] Robert Steele, “Memoranda for the President on 9/11: Time for the Truth — False Flag Deep State Truth! UPDATE 13: Ilhan Omar Draws the Line — Zionism is OVER!,” Phi Beta Iota Public Intelligence Blog, 7 July 2018 finalized 8 August 2018. [9] Readers can learn more about the emerging alliance between the alternative left and alternative right, centered on #UNRIG – election reform, at Robert Steele and Cynthia McKinney, “Former Representative and Intelligence Official Team Up to Unrig Elections,” Independent Voter Network, 26 September 2017. [10] The subordination of the US Congress to Zionist Israel is established beyond dispute.  The most recent outrage is the passage of a bill by 77 out of 100 Senators making it a felony to advocate a boycott of Israel, something most Jews, not just most Americans, support.  Here are just two of many references: Robert Steele, “AIPAC 101: What Every American Should Know — How Zionists Bribe & Blackmail Most Members of Congress,” Phi Beta Iota Public Intelligence Blog, 28 August 2017; and Robert Steele, “Is Ilhan Omar Cynthia McKinney 2.0?: Will the Zionist Parasite Be Purged from the USA This Time?” American Herald Tribune, 18 February 2019. [11] Cliff Sims, Team of Vipers: My 500 Extraordinary Days in the Trump White House (Thomas Dunne Books, 2019), p. 132. A summary review is free online. [12] Robert Steele, “Peace in the Middle East: Denuclearizing Israel, Restoring Palestine, and More,” Russian International Affairs Council, 18 May 2018.  [13] Parag Khanna, The Future is Asian (Simon & Schuster, 2019); a summary review is free online. [14] Robert Steele, For the President of the United States of America Donald Trump: Subject: Eradicating Fake News and False Intelligence with an Open Source Agency That Also Supports Defense, Diplomacy, Development, & Commerce (D3C) Innovation to Stabilize World. Earth Intelligence Network, 2017. Available in translatable full-text online. All Content by Mehr News Agency is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.